--- PAGE 1 ---
FBI - CENTRAL RECORDS CENTER

HQ - HEADQUARTERS

Class / Case #        Sub        Vol.        Serial #
0062 83894            10         448

OPEN

8/11/1274176

[unclear: RRPF003XGI]


62-

Serials 448-

HQ-83894

Sec. 10

62-HQ-83894-10


Department of Justice

FROM OR ADDED TO THIS F[illegible]

[unclear: NOV 25 1980]
P A

BUREAU

COPIED FOR
F O I P A
NOV 3 1976 BY
[illegible]

INVESTIGATION BY

PICKETT STREET,

[unclear: serial] 449

COPIED FOR
F O I P A
APR 26 1977 BY [unclear: 2210]

C 6/14/77

COPIED FOR
F O I P A
MAY 14 1974 BY
[illegible]

SECTION 10
SERIALS 448-

USE CARE IN HANDLING THIS FILE

Declassification authority derived
from FBI Automatic Declassification
Guide, issued May 24, 2007.

Transfer-Call 3421

--- PAGE 2 ---
62-83894 - UFO

[unclear: G-98]

September 6, 1966

[handwritten: Kleinknecht]
[handwritten: [illegible]]

REC.

Mrs. Levi J. Dow  
Goffstown, New Hampshire 03045  
[handwritten: FLORENCE C.]  
Dear Mrs. Dow:

Your letter of August 31st, with enclosures,  
has been received and I appreciate the interest which prompted  
you to write.

In response to your inquiry, this Bureau is  
strictly an investigative agency of the Federal Government  
and, as such, neither makes evaluations nor draws conclusions  
as to the character or integrity of any organization, publication  
or individual. I am sorry I cannot be of assistance to you;  
however, you may be sure your communication will be made a  
matter of record.

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

John Edgar Hoover  
Director

NOTE: Bufiles contain no record of correspondent or Amalgamated  
Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc.  
[handwritten: LOS ANGELES, CALIF]

ED:jeg (3)  
[handwritten: jeg]

[stamp:]  
MAILED 3  
SEP 6 - 1966  
COMM-FBI

Tolson  
DeLoach  
Mohr  
Wick  
Casper  
Callahan  
Conrad  
Felt  
Gale  
Rosen  
Sullivan  
Tavel  
Trotter  
Tele. Room  
Holmes  
Gandy

[stamp:]  
SEP 6 2 30 PM ’66  
REC’D - READING ROOM  
FBI

[handwritten: 284]

[stamp:] 70 SEP 16 1966

[stamp:] 56 SEP 12 1966

MAIL ROOM TYPE UNIT □

--- PAGE 3 ---
[unclear: Be 9...]

Mrs. Leroy J. Lowe  
[illegible], New Hampshire 03053

Dear Mrs. Lowe:

Your letter of August 31st, with enclosure,  
has been received and I appreciate the interest which prompted  
you to write.

In response to your inquiry, let me inform you  
that the FBI is an investigative agency of the Federal Government  
and, as such, neither makes evaluations nor draws conclusions  
as to the character or integrity of any organization or individual.  
Accordingly, I am sure you can understand why I am unable  
to comment. However, you may be sure your communication will be made a  
matter of record.

Sincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover  
Director

NOTE: Bufiles contain no record of correspondent or enclosures which  
[illegible]

[stamp: RECD]  
[stamp: DOM INTELL DIV.]

[stamp: RECEIVED-DIRECTOR F.B.I.]  
[stamp: SEP 7 11 56 AM ’66]  
[stamp: SEP 6 2 59 PM ’66]  
[stamp: SEP 6 11 26 AM ’66]

[stamp: RECD DE LOACH]  
[unclear: C B I P]

[stamp: 30 SEP 1966]  
[unclear: SUSP 1988]

[handwritten: illegible]

--- PAGE 4 ---
TRUE COPY

August 31, 1966

J. E. Hoover, F.B.I. Director  
Wash. D. C.

Dear Sir:

I am a member of "Nicap" and am very much  
interested in U.F.O (Flying Saucers)

Several weeks ago a fellow employee received a  
letter (business) from Arizona with a stamp on the back (see  
enclosed)

Being interested in U.F.O's I asked for the stamp  
& sent $3.00 for the 12 issues of AFSCA.

Having received & read my first issue I feel it isn't  
just what it appears on the surface. I can't say just why, but with  
my limited idea of how communists operate it strikes me it is backed  
by them.

My reason for writing this is that I consider myself  
a true American, I am told my ancestors go back to a Gr Gr Gr  
Grandmother who was an Indian Squaw & I'm proud of it. If, by  
writing for this AFSCA Report, my name could in anyway be aligned  
with the communist party, I would like to know if there is any way I  
can get things straightened out.

I may be all wrong about my interpretation of this  
report but I'd like to be sure since I expect I will get the other issues  
as they come up.

REC 98  
62-83894-448

I will be 63 yrs old in a few days. My husband passed  
away 4-30-65 I have worked as Mgr of Reins Dept for the N. H. Ins  
Co in Manchester N. H 44 years this month

Mrs. Levi J. Dow  
Goffstown  
New Hampshire 03045

Very truly yours,  
(Mrs) Florence C. Dow

[illegible] 9/2/66  
ack. [illegible] 9/6/66

4 SEP 8 1966

[illegible signature/initials]

--- PAGE 5 ---
August 31, 1966

J. E. Hoover, F.B.I director  
Wash. D.C.

Dear Sir:  
I am a member of "Nicap" and am very much  
[strikethrough: illegible] interested in U.F.O (flying Saucers)  
Several weeks ago a fellow-employee received a letter (business)  
from Arizona with a stamp on the back (see enclosed).  
Being interested in U.F.O.'s I asked for the stamp & sent 3.00  
for the 12 issues of [unclear: AFSCA?].  
Having received & read my first issue I feel it isnt just  
what it appears on the surface. I can't say just why, but  
with my limited idea of how Communists operate it  
strikes me it is backed by them.

My reason for writing this is that I consider myself a  
true American, I can [unclear] my ancestry go back to a  
Rev. War Gr Grandmother who was an Indian Squaw &  
am proud of it. If by writing for this [unclear: AFSCA?] Report,  
my name could in anyway be aligned with the  
Communist party, I would like to know if there is any  
way I can get things straightened out.  
I may be all wrong about my interpretation of this report  
but I'd like to be sure since I expect I will get the other  
issues as they come up.

[stamp: ANSWERED]

I will be 63 yrs old in a few days.  
My husband passed away 4-30-65  
I have worked as Mgr of [unclear] Dept for the N.H. Shoe Co in  
Manchester. N.H 44 years this month

Very truly yours,  
(Mrs) [unclear] C. Dow

MRS Levi J. Dow  
Goffstown  
New Hampshire 03045

[stamp: CORRESPONDENCE]

[upside-down stamp: RECD-CORR & COMM FBI]  
[upside-down stamp: SEP 1 3 53 PM ’66]

--- PAGE 6 ---
1 - J C Kyle. 9/2/66
ack: [illegible] 9/6/66

"ENCLOSURE ATTACHED"

--- PAGE 7 ---
62-83894-448

--- PAGE 8 ---
AFSCA's        [unclear: 62-83 894-4448?]
( Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America )

3rd National

FLYING SAUCER
CONVENTION

S A U C E R
* MOVIES
* SLIDES
* EXHIBITS
* BOOKS
* LITERATURE

REGISTER
9 A. M. -
$2.00 per day

At The Beautiful, New
C E N T E N N I A L   C O L I S E U M  (4590 S. Virginia St.)

Reno, Nevada - July 8,9,10, 1966,

Program: 10 A.M. to 11 P.M.

SPEAKERS ARE: Wayne S. Aho, Carl A. Anderson, Orfeo Angelucci, Michael "X" Barton,
Wesley Bateman, Marianne Francis, Dr. Daniel W. Fry, Calvin C. Girvin, Gabriel Green,
Dr. George King, Hanno Mayberry, Howard Menger, Laura Mundo, Mel Noel, Sidney Padrick,
Chief Standing Horse, Dr. Frank E. Stranges, Mollie Thompson, Hope Troxell, George W.
Van Tassel, Hal Wilcox.

HEAR:  Amazing experiences with spacecraft from other planets and their occupants by the
       greatest assembly of contactee-speakers since our Los Angeles convention in 1959
       at the Statler-Hilton.
SEE:   Startling new photographic evidence — the biggest collection of Flying Saucer photos
       on display in the history of the saucer movement. Actual color movies and new still
       photos of Flying Saucers.
MEET:  IN PERSON, PEOPLE WHO HAVE HAD ACTUAL CONTACTS WITH SPACESHIPS
       AND THEIR CREWS FROM OTHER WORLDS.
LEARN: About this important subject which is so vital to the welfare and survival of humanity
       in our times.
ATTEND: AFSCA's 3rd National Convention. You'll be glad you did! Fill out the Advance
        Registration form below. Do it Now!

For Motel & Hotel room information, write to: The Greater Reno Chamber of Commerce
                                          P.O. Box 2109; Reno, Nevada

AFSCA 3rd NATIONAL CONVENTION ADVANCE REGISTRATION FORM

To: AFSCA Headquarters; 2004 N. Hoover St., Los Angeles, Calif. 90027. Phone: 662-4404.

Yes, count me in! I don't want to miss joining with you at this important convention
and helping to support this vital movement. Here is my $______________ Please send me _____
Advance Reservation tickets ($5.00 for the 3 days, or $2.00 per day). IMPORTANT: I am
also enclosing a stamped, self-addressed envelope for the return of my tickets. ADVANCE
REGISTRATIONS must be received at AFSCA Headquarters no later than JUNE 30th!!!

Name______________________________ Street______________________________________

City___________________________ State_____________________ Zip Code_____________


FLYING
SAUCERS

I
N
T
E
R
N
A
T
I
O
N
A
L

Official Journal of the
Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc.

SPECIAL AFSCA THIRD NATIONAL FLYING SAUCER CONVENTION ISSUE

ISSUE NO. 24        JULY,1966        50c

--- PAGE 9 ---
SPECIAL        AFSCA        CONVENTION        MESSAGE

BRIGHT WORLD IN HANDS OF SAUCER MOVEMENT | humanity.

(Editor's Note: This special message was
received from Master Kalen-Li Retan (head of the
planet Korendor, about 400 light years distant) on
May 4, 1966 via special directional short-wave radio
by Bob Renaud, the young electronic-technician whose
remarkable story we printed in issues #18, 19, 20,21,
and 22, and which will be continued in our next issue.
Since Bob's initial radio contact in 1961, he has
talked with the crew of a spacecraft as he watched
them on his special TV screen in his home — and
eventually met his contacts in-person; visited their
undersea and underground bases on our planet; was
taken aboard many of their spaceships; and was
actually allowed to pilot two of their small scout
craft — one on a short solo flight.)

"Kalo (Hello), friends. We will get directly to
the point of our message to you. Frankly, we are
appalled at the state of Earth at present. Despite our
constant warnings and even our actual intervention in
some instances, the condition upon your planet grows
steadily worse.

One subject on everyone's lips these days is
Vietnam. From a little civil war, it has grown
steadily and inexorably into a full scale conflict
between the world's three major powers: the United
States, the Soviet Union, and Communist China.

Many influential people have used the approach
of patriotism and love of God and Country to twist
decent human feelings into dangerous channels of
thought and action. With their charges of treason and
sympathy with the enemy, they have aroused a good
portion of the populace to a state of fear, distrust,
and hatred of those who seek peace and love. Unfor-
tunately, because some unconventional individuals
have been associated with the peace movement, that
entire operation has been seriously hindered.

Your government is a military puppet, a mere
parrot of the monstrosity that is the Military-Indus-
trial complex. Your senators, except for a few, are
robots, speaking what they are told to say.

Your President is, unfortunately, a pawn of
their needs and demands. We have contacted him
several times concerning the state of affairs, and he
has said that he could do nothing to change them, for
if he were to speak out against the Asian conflict, he
would be removed. This is what happened to the late
Mr. Kennedy who, in his great humanitarianism, was
reluctant to sacrifice his ideals and his visions for
the sake of the Military Industrial octopus. He paid
the supreme penalty for his efforts in behalf of

Make no mistake. Your government is not in the
White House or the Congress. IT IS IN THE PENTA-
GON, AND IN THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE VAST
"DEFENSE"-ORIENTED INDUSTRIES. It is THEY,
not the President or the Congressmen, who run the
United States. The facade government is merely to
allay undue alarm or suspicion of the people.

Examine another aspect of the Asian war, the
ECONOMIC side. Do you recall that, in the stock
reports just recently, the Dow-Jones average
dropped sharply BECAUSE OF A RUMOR THAT
NORTH VIETNAM HAD MADE A PEACE BID? Does
the staggering implication of this news evade you?
Stock prices suffering a heavy loss because of a
rumor that peace might come to pass!

This thought is most distressing. Your economy
relies so heavily upon war and destruction, that if it
were to stop, THE UNITED STATES ECONOMY
WOULD SUFFER A MASSIVE DEPRESSION! Your
money system would collapse like a house of cards.
Millions would be unemployed, sick, hungry and
homeless. Tremendous industrial complexes would
close their doors.

The utterly appalling fact is this: WAR IS
PROFITABLE. Highly so! Every major conflict has
been accompanied by a strong peak in your monetary
prosperity. Peace has usually been economically
painful!

After World War 1, the nation coasted for a while
upon the fat put on during the boom of the war years.
In 1929, the bottom fell out. After the Korean War,
in the 1950's came another recession. What comes
after Vietnam? No one knows, and no one wants to
find out. The war in Vietnam is bringing an unheard-
of degree of affluence in the United States. Why kill
a good thing by ending the war? The philosophy, in
essence, is this: It is economically expedient to send
military forces to Vietnam and elsewhere in Asia in
order to wage war, because in doing so, the United
States' economy is bolstered and maintained at a high
level of prosperity; human life is secondary to the
preservation of economic well-being!

It is thus evident that, unless a drastic change is
made in the structure of your economy, war will
never end because the Military-Industrial complex
WON'T LET IT!

Many of you fear Communism. Where did that
fear come from, I ask you? From within yourself?
NO! It was brainwashed into you by the Military-
Industrial complex. Who controls all your news
media? The government and the advertisers. Who,
then, is in a position to dictate what shall be printed?

ISSUE NO. 24        FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL        JULY, 1966

Official Journal of the
Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America, Inc.
International Headquarters: 2004 N. Hoover St., Los Angeles,, Calif. 90027,U.S.A.

GABRIEL GREEN, Editor
HELEN GREEN, Asst. Ed.

Dedicated to
The Physical, Spiritual, and Economic Emancipation of Man

A Non-profit Organization

FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL (6 issues-$3.00.
Membership-$1.00) is published quarterly. Copyright
© 1965 by Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of
America. All rights reserved. The information
presented in "Flying Saucers International" does not
necessarily represent the views of AFSCA. The num-
ber after your name on the address label indicates the
issue with which your subscription expires. Subscrip-
tion renewals will start where the previous one ended,
and will be acknowledged only by the new number after
your name on future issues. A "Time to Renew"

notice will be enclosed in the last issue for which you
have paid. New subscriptions will start with the last
issue published, unless a specific starting issue num-
ber is requested. When writing to AFSCA for a reply,
enclose a stamped self-addressed envelope. Not
responsible for magazines lost in the mail due to sub-
scribers' failure to inform us of their current address.
Prices subject to change. Payment must accompa-
ny order. Send cash, check or money order to: AFSCA;
2004 North Hoover St.; Los Angeles, California 90027.
Phone: 662-4404.

2

FLYING SAUCER NEWS IN BRIEF

NEW BOOKS NOW AVAILABLE FROM AFSCA:
(Price includes 15¢ mailing charge. California
residents also add 4% sales tax.)
1. COUNCIL OF SEVEN LIGHTS by George Van
Tassel, now reprinted — $3.65.
2. THE ADVENT OF THE COSMIC VIEWPOINT by
Bryant Reeve — $6.15.
3. FLYING SAUCERS THROUGH THE AGES by Paul
Thomas — $4.15.
4. OTHER TONGUES, OTHER FLESH by George
Hunt Williamson, now reprinted — $6.10.
5. SECRET OF THE ANDES by Brother Philip - $4.
6. FLYING SAUCERS AND THE THREE MEN by
Albert K. Bender — $4.15.
7. FLYING SAUCERS — SERIOUS BUSINESS by
Frank Edwards — $6.10.
8. INCIDENT AT EXETER by John G. Fuller -$6.10.
9. THE HOLLOW EARTH by Dr. Raymond Bernard,
now available again in soft cover for $3.15.

PAST CONVENTIONS & SAUCER ACTIVITIES:
FEBRUARY 5,6, 1966: Dr. Frank E. Stranges' 4th
Annual UFO Space and Science Convention was held at
the Blarney Castle Inn Annex in Los Angeles.
JUNE 4,5,6, 1966: Dr. Daniel W. Fry's Man in
Space Symposium took place at Dunsmuir, near Mt.
Shasta in Northern California.
JUNE 25,26,27, 1966: Buck Nelson's 10th Annual
Spacecraft Convention was held at Buck's Mountain
View Ranch; Route 1, Box 236; Mountain View, Mo.

BACK ISSUES OF UFO INTERNATIONAL are now
selling 11 issues for $3.00, while they last (issue
#11 is now out of print). There is much timeless and
valuable information available in these magazines.

OUT OF PRINT: 1. FLYING SAUCERS: TOP
SECRET by Major Donald E. Keyhoe is now out of
print, although it is listed in our new brochure.
(Some saucer books have occassionally gone out of
print without notice.)
2. BACK ISSUES #6 and 11 are now out of print. We
still have only a few copies left of #9 which we have
priced at $1.00 each in an effort to preserve them for
serious researchers and collectors. Please do not
order these items, or any other materials which we
do not advertise.

PRICE CHANGE: The price has gone up on two
of the better known books in the saucer field, which
we must now order from England: 1. THE SKY
PEOPLE by Brinsley le Poer Trench, was $4.65.
It is now $5.10, postpaid. 2. ROAD IN THE SKY by
George Hunt Williamson, was $4.15. It is now $5.10,
postpaid. California residents please add 4% tax.

"UFOI" ISSUE #23 CORRECTIONS: Page 4, line
3: the date should be April 24, 1964, instead of
1965. On page 4, line 1 of the 7th paragraph, insert
"later, via telepathy" after "They told him ----."

SEATTLE, WASHINGTON area residents please
note: AFSCA Unit #25 meets every 4th Friday at the
Seattle Public Library, Room 325 at 7:30 P.M.,
under the capable direction of Mr. Leverett G.
Tallman. The meeting is free, and all who are
interested in the Flying Saucer subject are invited to
come to listen and to participate in the discussion.

ZIP CODES ARE IMPORTANT: If the address
label on this magazine does not have your zip code
number on it, please notify us as to what your num-
ber is. If you don't know your number, call your
local Post Office and then let us know. Thanks!

AFSCA BROCHURES AND SAUCER-PHOTO
POST CARDS, sent to friends and acquaintances, are
a good way to help spread the word about Flying
Saucers. Brochures are 1¢ each (this just about pays
the postage to mail them to you). Saucer post cards
are 50 for $1.00.

WHEN WRITING AFSCA, if you wish a personal
reply to a specific inquiry, please enclose a stamped,
self-addressed envelope. No replies can otherwise
be sent. General information may be obtained via
our brochures and magazines. We are sorry that we
cannot have a lengthy correspondence with all the
hundreds of persons who would like us to do so, but
unfortunately we have neither the time nor the staff
for it — and our mail has been greatly increased in
the last few months.

SAUCER NEWS CLIPPINGS: Your response has
been wonderful! We've received so many clippings
from you helpful people that we simply hadn't enough
space to print all your individual names and cities.
So we say a big and sincere THANKS to all of you.
And please do keep 'em coming! (One reminder:
please DON'T write on or near the clippings.)

WEDDING BELLS rang on Saturday, June 4, 1966
for contactee Elary J. Willsie and Sophia Martinez
Olivares of Mexico City. The ceremony took place
at Los Angeles, California. Among those present
were Sophia's parents and her younger sister, all of
Mexico City; Mrs. Maud Willsie, mother of the
groom; and your editor, who was also official photog-
rapher for the occasion. Mr. and Mrs. Willsie will
live in Los Angeles. Congratulations and best wishes,
Elary and Sophia!

MEL NOEL, former Air Force Lieutenant and
fighter pilot, is fast becoming very well known for his
lectures on his amazing experiences with Flying
Saucers while on active duty in the service. He has
been speaking to capacity crowds wherever he goes.
On Thursday, June 23, 1966, the personable Mr.
Noel spoke to a standing-room only crowd at the
Aeronautical Sciences Building on Beverly Blvd. in
West Los Angeles. We hear that he is booked to
speak at 57 colleges across the nation! Recently he
appeared on the Louis Lomax TV Show, and has been
heard on many radio shows. He leaves shortly for
Mexico City, where he has been invited by an official
government group to speak. He has been promised
some interesting experiences by a local contactee
there, and we look forward to hearing his report on
his return! Good work, Mel, and good luck!

SID PATRICK, contactee from Watsonville,
Calif., who spent two hours aboard a space craft,
was recently in Los Angeles when he was guest
speaker at the regular monthly meeting of the Ingle-
wood Unit of Understanding on Saturday, June 25,
1966. Meetings are held on the 4th Saturday of every
month at the Inglewood Business and Professional
Woman's Club; 820 Java St., Inglewood, at 8:00 P.M.
Donation is $1.00. Information: Mrs. Roberta T.
Forrester, Program Chairman; P.O. Box 146;
Inglewood, Calif. 90306. Phone: 677-5214. Also,
Mr. and Mrs. Lee Yates. Phone: 293-4743.

NEW AFSCA UNITS:
45. AFSCA Unit #45; Everett, Washington;
Ray and Jean Sebring, Co-Directors;
1032 S.W. 126th St.; Seattle, Wash. 98146.
46. AFSCA Unit #46; Ben Blazs, Director;
3057 Electric; Lincoln Park, Mich. 48146.
Several other new AFSCA Units have been formed
and will be listed in the next issue (#25). Persons
interested in forming AFSCA Units in their cities
should contact AFSCA Headquarters for information.

15

--- PAGE 10 ---
FLYING SAUCER NEWS IN BRIEF

COMING 1966 FLYING SAUCER CONVENTIONS

JULY 8, 9, 10: AFSCA's 3rd National Convention,
Centennial Coliseum, Reno, Nev. (See details on back)

JULY 15, 16, 17: WAYNE AHO sponsors the
Northwest's 5th Annual Interplanetary Age Conven-
tion. Lectures, exhibits and New Age topics. Ad-
vance registrations - $1.00 per day for adults, 50¢
for students. Write to: Mrs. Lorena Vogt; 815 N.E.
110th; Seattle, Wash. Phone: Emerson 3-0956.

AUGUST 6 thru 14th: DR. NEVA DELL
HUNTER'S 12th Annual Quimby Conference of Trans-
lation. Lectures and discussions on New Age Topics,
including the stars, science and metaphysics. In
lovely scenic country at a beautiful, modern motor-
hotel. $2.50 per day, attendance. Information from:
Quimby Center; P.O. Box 453; Alamogordo, N.M.

AUGUST 19, 20, 21: SPACE RESEARCH, Inc.'s
Second Annual Convention, at the North Branch
YMCA in Spokane, Washington. Scenic location near
the Spokane River. Indoor and outdoor convention
activities. For information, write to: Space
Research Inc., No. 6815 Julia, Spokane, Wash.

OCTOBER 22, 23: GEORGE VAN TASSEL'S 13th
Annual Spacecraft Convention at Giant Rock, Calif. in
the desert 17 miles north of Yucca Valley. Bring
your own camping equipment and enjoy the outing.

OCTOBER 29, 30: 10th ANNUAL NORTHERN
CALIFORNIA SPACECRAFT CONVENTION, Clare-
mont Hotel, Berkeley, Calif. Info: Angela Kilsby;
1265 Montgomery Blvd.; San Francisco, Calif. 94127.

OUR NEW NAME: Our magazine, formerly
called "UFO International", has now become "Flying
Saucers International", which we feel to be a more
appropriate title, since Flying Saucers are no longer
Unidentified Flying Objects as far as we are concern-
ed. Flying Saucers have become a serious issue
with thinking people all over the world. We believe
that most of the objects which have been sighted have
been of extraterrestrial origin, controlled by intelli-
gent beings who, in form, are very much like us.
Therefore, we hope you will understand our reasons
for changing titles, and that you will continue to
enjoy reading our publication under its new banner.

DR. RAYMOND BERNARD, founder of the
Biosophical Society of Santa Caterina, Brazil, passed
away on Sept. 10, 1965. He was the author of "The
Hollow Earth" and several other books concerned
with the hollow earth theory.

MARIA ELLIOTT, contactee, psychic and
founder of Maria Creative Womanhood Foundation,
was a recent guest on the Bob Grant Radio Show, and
the Pamela Mason TV Show. Glamorous Maria now
has her own program every Tuesday afternoon at
2:30 p.m. on KTYM radio. She may be seen in
person every Wed. evening at Holland House Restau-
rant, 8:00 p.m. in the downstairs meeting room.
An interesting program may be heard on New Age
Topics, and free readings are given. For more
information about Maria's appearances, classes,
etc., phone 657-1631, or write: Dr. Maria Elliott;
1543 Sunset Plaza Drive; Los Angeles, Calif. 90069.

DR. GEORGE KING, founder of the Aetherius
Society, was host at the official opening of the
Society's new headquarters at 6202 Afton Place; Los
Angeles, Calif. 90028; on March 5, 1966. After the
program Dr. King personally escorted us around the
attractive quarters. He also reported that a high
Space Being in physical form had visited there
recently for an hour and fifteen minutes and, after

walking around the premises, left his blessing on the
Aetherius Society and its work. For further inform-
ation call 465-9652, or write to the above address.

DELLA LARSON, who for over a decade was the
guiding light and main instigator of Flying Saucer
meetings and activities in the San Francisco Bay
Area, passed away on October 25, 1965. She was
70 years old. She will be remembered for her
energetic and enthusiastic dedication to the goals of
the Flying Saucer cause, as well as for the highly
successful annual Northern California Space Craft
Conventions which she organized for nine years.
(Della, we salute you!)

MAX MILLER, former publisher of the now-
defunct "Saucers" magazine, and author of "Flying
Saucers: Fact or Fiction" (now out of print), has a
new role. He is now editor-publisher of "Real" mag-
azine which may be found on the newsstands for 50¢.
The August '66 issue devotes about half of its space to
the Flying Saucer subject and will be well worth your
investigation.

WILBUR MILLER, one of the early researchers
in the Flying Saucer Movement, passed away on
March 5, 1966. He was known for his fine channel
contacts with several Space Beings, including Monka
of Mars. He also was the co-author — with his wife,
Evelyn — of the book "We of the New Dimension."
Although he was a native of Missouri he had, in
recent years, been a resident of Los Angeles and of
Morongo Valley, Calif. (Good journey, Will!)

HOPE TROXELL, founder of the School of
Thought, now situated in Independence, Calif. (P.O.
Box 458), reported recently that the neighboring
towns of Bishop and Lone Pine had partial blackouts
during an evening channel (telepathic) session she was
having with the Space Brothers. The lights in Inde-
pendence went out completely for several minutes by
a gradual fade-out, and then came on again in the
same manner. During this time, the Space Being
speaking through Hope said to those present: "Be not
afraid. We are guardians of the race. Protection
will be given to those in the area."

HAL WILCOX made a fine guest appearance on
the Joe Pyne TV Show, April 30, 1966. Hal passed
the lie-detector test with flying colors and conducted
himself with dignity and fortitude, which isn't always
easy on the Joe Pyne Show. During the test, Hal
stated that he had taken a saucer ride to visit the
second planet from the star, Alpha Centauri.

M.I.N.D. stands for Mental Investigations of
New Dimensions, an organization recently formed by
Wesley and JoNell Bateman. Their activities include
meetings, courses and public appearances. They
have demonstrated on several occassions for groups
of up to 20 people, their ability to telepathically
direct the movements of visable spacecraft overhead.
Write: M.I.N.D.; 4916 Franklin Ave.; Hollywood,
California 90027. Phone: 661-1731.

HELEN & GABRIEL GREEN contributed their
bit to the education of nearly 300,000 young people to
the saucer subject at the Teen-Age Fair, April 1 thru
10 at the Hollywood Palladium, where AFSCA had a
booth to exhibit saucer photos, show slides, and to
disseminate information. We handed out over 13,000
brochures and saucer photo post cards, and talked
ourselves hoarse answering questions for 12 hours
each day. Gabriel also made over a dozen radio and
TV appearances and interviews during the Fair.

We also had another booth at the National
Aviation and Aerospace Exhibition at the Pan Pacific
Auditorium, May 17 thru 22. Yes, we've been busy!

14

The Military-Industrial complex, by opinion-control
through the use of psycho-politics (brainwashing by
controlled news management).

Consider this: In order to survive, a commer-
cial medium, such as a newspaper or magazine,
requires a vast amount of advertising revenue. The
mere subscription fees will not cover the costs.
Thus, they depend for their continued existence upon
money paid by advertisers. Suppose, then, that the
editor of a certain newspaper decides that he is
opposed to the Vietnam policy, and says so in his
paper. The advertisers simply say to the editor,
"Either you toe the mark and print what we want, or
we'll withdraw our advertising."

Such pressures are a fact of life. The newsmen
are torn between their higher devotion to Truth, and
also to the lower level of their physical needs.
Rather than jeopardize their security and their
futures they, of course, submit meekly to power.
Their actions are fully understandable, and we do not
hold them responsible.

We throw the blame directly on the Military-
Industrial complex which, by its underhanded dealing,
threats of force, and economic pressure and retali-
ation, has crushed the spirit of American journalism
and turned it from a dynamic motivating force in
American life into a weak-willed, subservient
mouthpiece for the power-masters. We blame them
for the death of journalistic freedom and individuality!

One more comment on this topic: May I say that
a better economic system is already known to the
leaders of the Flying Saucer Movement. It is the
system known as Universal Economics. As we have
said over and over before, it is the non-money
economic system which MUST be applied on your
planet before you can start to resolve most of your
major problems and thus begin to establish a highly-
advanced, non-destructive state of existance on
Earth, such as we of more advanced planets have
enjoyed for so long. INVESTIGATE THIS SYSTEM
to evaluate it for its merit — then ACT to apply it!
YOUR VERY SURVIVAL AS A CIVILIZATION MAY
DEPEND UPON IT!

Perhaps this is an opportune time to clarify a
few questions which have been asked about us.

Do we of Korendor work with the local planets
in our operations? Yes, we do cooperate with them
a great deal. However, our work on Earth is
relatively independent of the local planets. We have
many times overstepped what is considered to be the
limit of interference upheld by Venus, Mars, and
other planets. This has caused a good deal of debate
between them and us. Each time we have pointed out
that we of Korendor are basically pragmatic in nature.
Although we do respect the laws of self-destiny, we
feel also that where stepping in is required to prevent
disaster, it is our right and our duty to do so.

We have interfered in such places as the United
States, China, Russia, and on a large scale in
Vietnam. This has caused no end of consternation in
the local Tribunal of Planets. We are sympathetic to
their viewpoint, but we do feel that their policy is
limited in its capacity to achieve the desired goals.
It is our opinion that one cannot stand on the sidelines
and achieve any noticeable results.

As I have said before, we have infiltrated your
planet. We are directly involved in Earth's life.
You might say that you have been invaded — a strange
way of phrasing it, to be sure, but nonetheless
factual, since we walk and work amongst you daily!

We have been asked about our physical appear-
ance. We are humanoid, indistinguishable from
yourselves, except that in our natural form we aver-
age three to four feet in height. Every other dimen-
sion is proportionately scaled, so that photographs of
us would not reveal our origin in any way.

We are able to increase our height while on
Earth through a technical process related to telepor-
tation. It is concerned with recording the atomic and
molecular structures of our bodies, and then repro-
ducing them identically on a larger scale. Differ-
ences in our internal structure are adjusted by the
computer which controls the reproducer.

Our most common skin color is a little darker
than yours, although we have skin colors which vary
as yours do all over the Earth. Usually, however,
we would look "tan" to you. We are NOT green, blue,
or heliotrope, as has been suggested!

Concerning our language, we generally use one
of two tongues and we are fairly familiar with a third.
On Korendor itself we speak the native language,
Korendian. It is similar in many ways to your own
languages since it, like yours, was originally derived
from Galingua, one of the two universal tongues.
The other is Solex Mal, which is more familiar to
you, since it is used by your local Solar System
planets. It is seldom heard now in our sector of
space, as Galingua has replaced it almost completely.

Unlike your own, however, the Korendian-
Galinguan speech is very rhythmic, and has few
sibilant sounds, such as "s" or "z". Some of the
sharper sounds like "c" and "k" are minimized. It is
a beautiful language which is very musical and
pleasant to hear.

Perhaps you would be surprised to learn that
ancient Latin was liberally taken from Galingua.
There are many similarities in the two languages.
Even modern English has roots on other worlds!

In concluding my message to you, may I say —
people of Earth: open up your minds and your hearts
to the world around you. There is so much to be
learned, so much to be discovered. Don't waste
precious hours and days in bigotry and ignorance,
and in senseless fighting and killing. To do so is
truly a crime against nature and humanity.

At this stage where you have the very stars
almost in your grasp, how irrational and barbaric it
is to spend futile hours warring with your brothers.
As an old saying on your world puts it: "As you make
your bed, so shall you lie in it." The decision does
not seem difficult. Here are the alternatives: A
world living in harmony, justice, security and abun-
dance for all, or a world continuing to reap the
bloody harvests that grow from the seeds of hatred
and mistrust. If left to their own devices, the
majority of mankind will forge onward to a destiny of
destruction and annihilation, oblivious to the danger
in their actions. They are short-sighted; they care
little for the future.

It is you New Age people, dedicated to the wel-
fare of all mankind, and having the vision and under-
standing of the ways to build the better world of
tomorrow, who must lead the way. You have the
future in YOUR hands, if you will but shoulder your
responsibilities. The Flying Saucer Movement, as
you call it, belongs to you. Support it in every way
possible. Help it to grow until it is influential
throughout your world. Go out into the world and
guide the misguided, find the lost, and recover the
strays. We are behind you all the way. As we have
said many times before, we will take two steps for
every one that you take to help yourselves.

The time has come for nations to "bury the
hatchet", to clasp hands, and plunge into the future
together — in co-operation toward mutual goals.

Look to the heavens and realize that your destiny
is not in bleak atomic desolation, but in the magnifi-
cent greatness that you can achieve if you will but
work for it. Choose the right path and you will soon
qualify to join with us in our journeys amongst the
stars.

"Va i Luce (Go in Light)."        Kalen-Li Retan    3

--- PAGE 11 ---
THIRD NATIONAL CONVENTION  
JULY 8, 9, 10, 1966

Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America

CENTENNIAL COLISEUM  
RENO, NEVADA

FRIDAY - JULY 8, 1966

TIME  
MAIN HALL

10 AM  
INVOCATION: Dr. Frank E. Stranges.  
Introduction of membership, AFSCA  
Opening & Happening: Introduction of Chief  
Space Movement Personalities.

11:00  
WAYNE AHO  
“More on the Most Exciting People You Know!”  
Ch. Howard Menger

11:50AM to 1:30PM LUNCH

1:30  
Chief Standing Horse  
“Many [?] from Upper Mars, Venus, Clarion”  
[illegible]

2:20  
HOPE TROXELL  
“Up Your Awareness”  
[illegible]

3:20  
Chief Michael Baton

3:30  
MOLLIE THOMPSON  
(Space Age Songs)  
“Calling the Moon,”  
“Journey to the Moon,”  
Chairman: Hal Wilcox

4:30  
DICK MILLER  
“Space Beings Visit Mt. Shasta”  
Chairman: Dan Fry

5:30  
GOLD ROOM  
Space Tapes (5:15-7:15)

7:00  
LAURA MUNDO  
“Flying Saucers, Ancient And Prophesied”  
Ch. Howard Menger

8:00  
MOLLIE THOMPSON  
(Space Age Songs)

8:10  
MEL NOEL  
Investigative report on the U.S. Air Force.  
Ch. Sid Padrick

9:00  
DR. DANIEL W. FRY  
“The Why of …”  
[illegible]  
Ch. Sid Padrick  
comment

10:00  
CLIFFORD STONE  
[illegible]  
Ch. Wayne Aho

10:10  
Question Period. Written questions to be presented by Main Hall speakers to Clifford Stone at Gold Room speakers: Dr. Daniel Fry.

11:00  
Ch. Wayne Aho

SATURDAY - JULY 9, 1966

MAIN HALL

10:00  
HAL WILCOX  
“The Earl of The Centaurs,”  
Ch. Chief Standing Horse

11:00  
HIANNINO MAYBERRY  
“Messages from Triangulum”  
Ch. Laura Mundo

11:50AM to 1:30PM LUNCH

1:30  
CARL ANDERSON  
“The Mysteries into Alpha Saucer”  
Ch. Mel Noel

2:20  
CALVIN GIRVIN  
“Infra-Ray for the Extra-terrestrial Communication”  
[illegible]

3:20  
MOLLIE THOMPSON  
(Space Age Songs)

3:30  
DONALD J. KEYHOE  
“The White Sands Incident”  
Ch. George Van Tassel

4:30  
CLIFFORD STONE  
“Abundant New World: The people of tomorrow”  
Ch. E. Stranges

5:30  
GOLD ROOM  
Space Tapes (5:15-7:15)

6:00  
SIDNEY PADDRICK  
“The House Aboard the Extra-terrestrial Space Craft”  
Ch. Dan Fry

7:00  
GEORGE VAN TASSEL  
“Space Craft Contact at Giant Rock”  
Ch. Robt King

8:00  
COLOR MOVIE  
“A Trip Through the Saucers”  
Ch. George Van Tassel

9:10  
Question Period. Written questions to be presented by Main Hall speakers to George Van Tassel at Gold Room speakers: Michael Barton

GOLD ROOM

10:00  
AFSCA Unit Directors Membership Directors interested in forming a local unit

11:00  
DR. FRANK STRANGES  
“Flying Saucers and Mystery”  
Ch. Daniel Lucci

11:50  
Space Tapes (12:15-1:15)

1:30  
MICHAEL BARTON  
“The 1000 Year World Prophecy”  
Ch. [illegible]

2:20  
DR. GEORGE KING  
“The Twelve Blessings”  
Ch. Wayne Aho

3:20  
MOLLIE THOMPSON  
(Space Age Songs)

3:30  
DOROTHY ANGELUCCI  
“The Frequency Barrier”  
Ch. Marianne Francis

4:30  
EDWARD MEYER  
“Into the Saucers and the 4th Dimension”  
Ch. Carl Anderson

5:30  
Space Tapes

6:00  
HOWARD MENGER  
[illegible]  
Ch. Cliff Stone

7:00  
MOLLIE THOMPSON  
(Space Age Songs)

7:10  
DAN FRY  
“Inner Views”  
Ch. Gabe Green

8:00  
[illegible]

9:10  
Question Period. Written questions to be presented by Main Hall speakers to [illegible]

SUNDAY - JULY 10, 1966

MAIN HALL

10:00  
WALTER RIEDEL, Jr.  
“Flying Saucer Council: Myth and Fact”  
Ch. Gabe Green

11:00  
ROBERT GROUNDS  
“Ways to Improve Contact by and for the Space Movement; Competent Speakers for Free Lecture Bureau”

11:50AM to 1:30PM LUNCH

1:30  
ORRIN ANDERSON  
“The Frank Stranges Story”  
Ch. Frank Stranges

2:20  
GEORGE VAN TASSEL  
“Flying Saucers Called Extra-terrestrial Force Base”  
Ch. Dan Fry

3:20  
MOLLIE THOMPSON  
(Space Age Songs)

3:30  
PAUL ORTH  
“Physical Space Contacts--Their Importance”  
Ch. Michael Barton

4:30  
DOROTHY ANGELUCCI  
“Flying Saucers and Fulfillment of the ancient prophecies”  
Ch. Hanno Mayberry

5:30  
GOLD ROOM  
Space Tapes (5:15-7:15)

6:00  
HOPE TROXELL  
“Building of the High Temple”  
Ch. George Van Tassel

7:00  
MOLLIE THOMPSON  
(Space Age Songs)

7:10  
GEORGE VAN TASSEL  
“Hidden Land of the [illegible] Earth”  
Ch. Calvin Girvin

8:00  
LAURA MUNDO  
“Firm Foundation and the Father’s Plans”  
Ch. William Francis

9:10  
Question Period. Written questions to be presented by Main Hall speakers to [illegible]

GOLD ROOM

10:00  
Flying Saucer Council. Exhibitors, Speakers and [illegible]  
Ch. Gabe Green

11:00  
[illegible]  
“Ways to Improve [illegible]”  
[illegible]

11:50  
LUNCH  
Space Tapes (12:15-1:15)

1:30  
SIDNEY PADDRICK  
“Message From Our Space brothers”  
Ch. Calvin Girvin

2:20  
HAL WILCOX  
“Space Time Plane [illegible]”  
[illegible]

3:20  
MOLLIE THOMPSON  
(Space Age Songs)

3:30  
MEL NOEL  
“The Flying Saucer and Photographs”  
[illegible]

4:30  
Written Questions

No smoking permitted in lecture and exhibit halls. Midway Lounge open for sandwiches, salads and drinks are available at lunch and dinner time.  
Phone: 662-4404.

AFSCA HEADQUARTERS: 2004 N. Hoover St.; Los Angeles, California 90027. Phone: 662-4404.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, contact AFSCA HEADQUARTERS.

BUY Easter SEALS

The London Free Press  
Western Ontario’s Foremost Newspaper

118th YEAR OF PUBLICATION  
LONDON, ONTARIO, TUESDAY, MARCH 29, 1966—36 PAGES

UFO SIGHTED BY LEWISTON PEOPLE

An unidentified flying object was spotted Saturday night in Lewiston by a family of eight persons.

Lewiston police said Patricia Landry of 35 Tart Ave. spotted the UFO at about 9:17 p.m. above her home.

According to police, the Landry woman and seven other persons spotted the object which was described as bright blue and gray in color, oval in shape. It was slid the UFO hovered for a few seconds and then “took off” at a high rate of speed in an easterly direction.

Tracked by Radar

UFOs Sighted Over Wide Section of District

An unidentified flying object was tracked briefly on radar by a U.S. Air Force base in Michigan last night, and a multitude of new sightings were reported by Western Ontario residents.

A retired U.S. Marine Corps major said yesterday “there is substantial evidence” that they are observation devices “controlled by a superior civilization.”

Sightings of the objects were reported last night over an area stretching from Sarnia to Kintore, northwest of Woodstock. The mysterious objects came in a variety of forms, according to their observers.

There was an orange one at Sarnia. And another flying off red, white and blue flashes. There was a red one in London that had a pulsating white halo. The one at Kintore was a bright white light that intermittently faded to dull red.

Some of them were high-tailing it through the sky like mad and some of them were sitting stock-still in mid-air. Some were travelling slowly and intermittent bursts of speed.

A spokesman at the U.S. Air Force base in Selfridge, Mich., said one was tracked briefly on radar, but could not say what it was.

Some observers said their sightings lasted a few minutes. Other reported keeping the object in sight for up to two hours.

The Free Press sent five men out Martian-hunting, two of them in a chartered plane, but found only two high-flying jet planes carrying the usual red and green running lights and leaving white vapor trails.

Maj. Donald N. Keyhoe, the Marine officer who advanced the outer-space-spy-in-the-sky theory on behalf of the National Investigations Committee on Aerial Phenomena, called on the U.S. Government yesterday to release all the information it has on UFO sightings.

“There is substantial evidence we are being observed by some sort of device which is far more advanced than anything we have and is controlled by a superior civilization,” he told a press conference.

“These things are real, and under intelligent control,” he added. He urged the air force to “end the secrecy on sightings and stop ridiculing the competent witnesses” who have seen them.

Keyhoe, who has written several books on the subject of UFO’s, is director of the National Investigations committee.

The majority of the Western Ontario sightings came from London and Sarnia.

Mrs. J. Fielding, of 105 Oxford St. E., London, reported seeing a white light in the northeast sky, headed toward Stratford at 7:25 p.m.

A Thorndale area man, Floyd Baxter, at 7:40 reported seeing an orange and yellow light moving very slowly to the northeast. He estimated it to be more than 1,000 feet high.

Fifteen minutes later at Kintore, six miles northeast of [illegible] said the bright light was stationary, then vanished at 7:40 p.m.

The [illegible] object was seen by several [illegible] Londoners [illegible]

[illegible]

THE SUN-BULLETIN—Binghamton, N.Y.  
March 17, ’66

Not star, says collector of flying saucer photos

The director of Unit 40 of the Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America is not convinced that the object sighted in the skies over Port Dickinson Tuesday night was the star Arcturus.

“I know enough about astronomy to know that a star does not behave in that manner,” Gerald M. Reynolds of 684 State St. said last night.

Mr. Reynolds said he talked with persons who witnessed strange object flashing multi-colored lights about 8:30 p.m. Tuesday. He hopes to talk with others who saw the object.

Mr. Reynolds, a construction foreman, is 60 years old. He has a large file of photographs of flying saucers and other material relating to space flight.

He admits that not all sightings are mysterious, and told of the time two persons called him to tell him about strange lights seen over Binghamton.

“One turned out to be the planet Jupiter … and the other light came from a house or a car on Ely Park hill,” he laughed.

THE TELEGRAM, Toronto, Sat., March 26, 1966

Swamp gas still ‘flying’

DETROIT—(UPI)

The U.S. Air Force closed its books today on the case of two “visits” by unidentified flying objects. It’s verdict: swamp gas.

But some of the people who witnessed what they thought was a landing by a glowing, extra-terrestrial space craft, were not completely convinced the experts were right.

And even while the two most spectacular Michigan sightings now were the tag of an “official explanation,” UFO sightings continued to pop up across the country, in rural areas and cities alike.

Dr. J. Allen Hynek, the top Air Force adviser on UFO sightings, climaxed three days of on-the-scene investigation by telling a news conference it appeared a very likely swamp gas was responsible for mass reports of strange glowing objects this week at Hillsdale and Dexter in southern Michigan.

William Van Horn, Hillsdale civil defense director, said he was “dissatisfied” with the explanation because Hynek’s investigation of the sighting was “too brief” and because Hynek sidestepped mention of the report from two college co-eds who said they saw the UFO close-up as it swept past their window.

Other UFO sightings, meanwhile, were reported from a drive-in restaurant in Des Moines; from some police officers in St. Louis; from a truck driver on a Michigan interstate highway; from sheriffs’ deputies in Toledo, Ohio; from a farmer in Upper Sandusky, Ohio; from a housewife at McComb, Miss.; a newsman at Tomah, Wis.; and a man at Bangor, Maine, who took a potshot at his object.

Mont.-Star, 4-19-66  
Photographed Flying Saucer, Picture Censored

ANACONDA

RAVENNA, Ohio, April 19—“We were close, closer than I ever want to be again,” said a deputy sheriff who chased an unidentified flying object from Ohio into Pennsylvania.

Hundreds of persons in both states reported seeing the “brilliant and shiny” object early Sunday morning.

Police Chief Gerald Buchert of Mantua, about eight miles north of Ravenna, said he took a picture of the object from his front yard but the air force told him not to release it.

Buchert said it looked like “two table saucers put together.”

[illegible]

POLICE CHIEF ‘CONVINCED THEY SAW SOMETHING’

Six Teens Tell of ‘Chase’ by Buzzing, Lighted UFOs

By ROBERT KISTNER  
Denver Post Staff Writer

Six picnicking Denver teen-agers reported Thursday night they were chased for an hour by unidentified flying objects in Daniels Park south of Denver in Douglas County.

The high school students—three boys, three girls—told Police Chief John C. MacIvor of Littleton they witnessed unexplained apparently “buzzing” red, blue and white lights accompanied by a series of pulsating buzzing sounds which began about 9:30 p.m.

The teen-agers, all 17, who described what they saw hesitantly, were described by MacIvor as being “sincere,” could sober and a little shaken by what they saw.

The group appeared at MacIvor’s office shortly before 11 p.m.

“I was real skeptical at first,” MacIvor said. “But each of the kids called their parents—who knew they’d been picnicking—to tell them where they were.

“I don’t know what they saw,” he said, “but I’m convinced they saw something.”

Alan Scrivner, son of Mr. and Mrs. Russell Scrivner of 100 Jackson St., a junior at East High School, gave the following account:

Scrivner and five friends drove to Daniels Park, 10-12 miles southwest of Littleton, about 6:30 p.m. They parked the car and walked about a city block down a small incline and up again to a stone shelter built in the side of a hill.

The group was sitting around a fire they’d built inside when they heard “what sounded like a man walking on top of the shelter.” The roof can easily be reached on foot from the slanting hillside.

Scrivner and Don Otis, an East High junior, son of Mr. and Mrs. Elmo Otis, 1939 Fairfax St., stood on top of the shelter and shined a flashlight into the surrounding area. They saw nothing.

The two—leaving the others behind in the shelter—made their way through the underbrush back to the road. “I thought someone was messing around my car,” Scrivner said.

“Just as we got to the car,” he said, “both of us heard a real weird buzzing noise. It seemed to be all around us.”

As they reached the car, the youths saw “four red lights”—both at 10 o’clock in diameter—about two feet off the ground and parallel to each other.” There was a white light in the center of the reds.

The lights, about 30 feet apart, appeared to be in a field on the far side of the road “about 25 yards” from the car. The two, thinking “it might be two parked cars or something,” crouched in the ditch and waited.

About three minutes later, they again approached the car. They saw and heard nothing. They returned to the shelter.

The four in the shelter said that, while the two had been gone, they’d heard the same “footstep-like” sound on the roof again. Two of the girls said they’d also seen a “tall man, who might’ve been wearing a raincoat,” dart through the light showing through the window into the area. They also said they heard his footsteps.

The group decided to leave.

As they were walking back to the car, Otis turned and saw “a real bright flash behind the hill over the shelter and it lit up the whole area.”

Buzzing ‘All Around’

The ominous buzzing began again. No direction, “just all around — never heard anything like it in my life,” Scrivner said. Shortly afterward, as the group neared the car, they all agreed they saw the same thing:

Two blue lights hovering low in the sky, about three quarters of a mile away. The lights were stationary and went from bright to dim. A third — white — light appeared to rise up and down between the blues and “lit up the area.”

No outline — other than the lights — was visible.

They perched atop the car’s hood and watched the blue and white lights “off and on” for about a half hour. The lights appeared in back of the shelter — in the opposite direction from the first lights seen in the field.

Twenty minutes after the blues appeared, another set—these, blues with a bright red in the center—appeared “off to the left of the others and about a block away.” These hovered near the ground. The buzzing continued.

The night was overcast with no stars visible but “real clear beneath the clouds where the lights were.” At the third set of lights hovered, the youths agreed they could see a dark outline between the lights.

“It looked like a black football—the blue lights on each end—with an orange on top, like a bubble. The red light was at the bottom. It didn’t move up and down, but did cast a beam of light at the ground,” Scrivner said.

Car Didn’t Work Right

The youngsters piled in the car — a 1954 Ford — and started out of the park.

“You’d all think we’re nuts,” Scrivner said later, “but my car didn’t work right. I could get it up to about 30 miles an hour; then it would cut out like someone turned the ignition off. Then it would start up again.”

Scrivner also complained that the radio was “playing nothing but static” while they left the immediate area of the shelter.

As they drove off, two of the girls and Otis saw what appeared to be a “large, oval circle of light — it covered the whole road — following the car.”

Mary Zolar, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Jack A. Zolar, 945 Fairfax St., a senior at East, was in the back seat with two others.

“It was huge and glowing,” she said, “and came right up to the back of the car, then went out. It lasted about three seconds.”

As the car left the park area, it quit “missing out” and the radio played normally, Scrivner said.

Called Sheriff’s Office

The youths stopped at a service station and called the Arapahoe County sheriff’s office, then went to MacIvor’s office.

MacIvor said “one of the impressive things about their story” was all six didn’t claim to have seen the exact same thing at the same time.

“And a couple of them are real shook up,” he added.

The operations officer at Lowry Air Force Base said early Friday he’d received a call apparently from the Arapahoe County sheriff, reporting the sighting.

Others in the group were Michael Simington, son of Mr. and Mrs. James E. Simington, 773 Jackson St., a junior at East; Patty Rutherford, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Neal [illegible], 276 Harrison St., a junior at [illegible] High School, and Kaye Hurley, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd Hurley, 5736 Montview Blvd., a junior at [illegible] High School.

Two other UFO sightings were reported in the state, one in Delta and the other in Denver.

Delta Police Chief D. C. Morgan, patrolman Ernest Markley and reporter Don Pratt of the Delta Independent watched an object which was “glowing, green in color and very bright.” The men observed it for almost two hours before it disappeared by “rising straight up.”

In Denver, Terry Datz, 19, in University of Denver student, said he and Dennis Sullivan of Mt. Vernon, N.Y., sighted about seven UFOs which appeared “garbage can lid size.”

The students said the objects disappeared into the clouds after about 10 minutes.

Since December  
Area UFO Buffs Report Skies Clear of Saucers

Recent sightings in other sections of the country have stimulated interest in unidentified flying objects in the Spokane area but it has been reported seen in this locality since December.

The last reported [illegible] by Mrs. Jack A. Campbell, Route 3, director of the Spokane unit of the Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America.

Mrs. Campbell said there is going to be a regional convention of the flying saucer clubs in Spokane in early summer, and a lecture by a Seattle authority on unidentified flying objects is scheduled by the local unit April 9.

Mrs. Campbell said she was among several Spokane persons who saw such a flying object about December 29.

[illegible]

Super-Space World  
Sought By Soviets

MOSCOW (Reuters) — Russian scientists, undeterred by Western skepticism, believe it is possible that a super-civilization exists in space and is trying to make contact with earth.

Because of Moscow’s refusal to abandon hope, a new country-wide search is being undertaken for super-civilization signals.

Deputy Gets Too Close to ‘Saucer’

RAVENNA, Ohio (AP) — “We were close, closer than I ever want to be again,” said a deputy sheriff who chased an unidentified flying object from Ohio into Pennsylvania.

Hundreds of persons in both states reported seeing the “brilliant and shiny” object early Sunday morning.

Police Chief Gerald Buchert of Mantua, about eight miles north of Ravenna, said he took a picture of the object from his front yard but the air force told him not to release it.

Buchert said it looked like “two table saucers put together.”

--- PAGE 12 ---
Would You Believe—‘Saucer’ Visits Wichita?
By FRAN KETTLING
Beacon Staff Writer

[illegible]

The Wichita Beacon
Saturday, March 26, 1966

Mrs. Thomas and Johnny examined “flying saucer damage.”
Concrete reinforcement sheeting was broken, sand swirled.

UFO Sighting Reported Here
Not a Star -- Not an Aircraft, Says
Louis S. Smith Family of North Bend

SAUCER SHAPE. This is a rough sketch by Phil Smith, 15, of the Unidentified Flying Object watched by Phil, his father and mother, and his sister for about 10 minutes the evening of April 7. The band in the center (resembling windows) gave out the bright lights which first attracted Phil’s attention.

“Mysterious UFO’
Escorts Burns Plane
Meteorite
Flares Over
Northeast

BRILLIANTLY LIGHTED
Police Follow
Saucer 85 Miles

SAUCER BLAST? SIX
TOWNS SEE MYSTERY

THE MONTREAL STAR, MONDAY, APRIL 4, 1966
Boy Is Burned
By ‘Flying Ship’

CHARLES COZENS

‘The Thing’ Sets Britons
Speculating Anew

Object In
Sky Near
Bloomdale

Citizen-News
Thursday, April 7, 1966
Planet Pluto
Saucers Seen,
Talked With?

THOSE SPACE PEOPLE!
Flying Saucers,
Quakes Linked

A Second
UFO Seen
In Michigan

5 At Pierre
Sight UFO

Visible Again
Lights in Sky

BALL OF FIRE
IN HOLLYWOOD
‘LIKE SAUCER’

AFSCA        CONVENTION        SPEAKERS

1. WAYNE S. AHO; The New Age Foundation, Inc.;
   8 Smith St.; Seattle, Wash. 98109.
   Publish: “The Aquarian Dawn” (Donation basis).
2. CARL A. ANDERSON;
   2522 E. Pearson Ave.; Fullerton, Calif.
3. ORFEO ANGELUCCI;
   4160 Verdugo Road; Los Angeles, Calif. 90065.
4. MICHAEL “X” BARTON; Futura Press;
   5949 Gregory Ave.; Hollywood, Calif. 90038.
   Phone: 464-0441.
5. WESLEY BATEMAN; Mental Investigations of New
   Dimensions (M.I.N.D.); 4916 Franklin Ave.;
   Hollywood, Calif. 90027. Phone: 661-1731.
   Publish: “Prism” (12 issues-$3.00).
6. MARIANNE FRANCIS; Solar Light Center;
   Rt. 2, Box 572-C Central Point, Oregon 97501.
   Publish: “Starcraft” (4 issues-$2.00).
7. DR. DANIEL W. FRY; Understanding, Inc.;
   P. O. Box 105; Merlin, Oregon 97532.
   Publish: “Understanding” (12 issues-$2.50).
8. CALVIN C. GIRVIN;
   6711 Yucca St.; Hollywood, Calif. 90028.
9. GABRIEL GREEN; Amalgamated Flying Saucer
   Clubs of America, Inc.; 2004 N. Hoover St.;
   Los Angeles, Calif. 90027. Phone: 662-4404.
   Publish: “Flying Saucers International”
   (6 issues-$3.00).
10. DR. GEORGE KING; The Aetherius Society;
    6202 Afton Place; Hollywood, Calif. 90028.
    Publish: “The Aetherius Society Newsletter”
    (Donation basis). Phone: 465-9652.
11. JOHANNES “HANNO” MAYBERRY;
    Unified Research Center, Inc.;
    P. O. Box 764; Selma, Oregon 97538.
12. HOWARD MENGER;
    202 Schumann Drive; Sebastian, Florida 32958.
13. LAURA MUNDO; The Interplanetary Center;
    27359 Cranford Lane; Dearborn Heights, Mich.
    48127. Publish: “The Interplanetary News” (Free).
14. MEL NOEL;
    2760 Hollyridge Drive; Hollywood, Calif. 90028.
15. SIDNEY PATRICK;
    196 Hidden Valley Road; Watsonville, Calif.
16. CHIEF FRANK B. STANDING HORSE;
    AFSCA Unit #9; Rt. 2, Box 194, (27401 Hwy. 74);
    Perris, Calif. 92370. Phone: 657-2873.
17. DR. FRANK E. STRANGES;
    International Evangelism Crusades, Inc.;
    P.O. Box 252; Venice, Calif. 90293.
18. MOLLIE THOMPSON;
    Linton, Astley Bank, Darwen, Lancs., England.
19. HOPE TROXELL; School of Thought;
    P.O. Box 458; Independence, Calif. 93526.
20. GEORGE W. VAN TASSEL;
    Ministry of Universal Wisdom, Inc.;
    P.O. Box 458; Yucca Valley, Calif. 92284.
    Publish: “Proceedings” (Donation basis).
21. HAL WILCOX;
    Institute of Parapsychology;
    871 Gower St.; Hollywood, Calif. 90038.
    Phone: 469-5438.

THE COCKEYED BALLAD        SPACE AGE SONGS by Mollie Thompson

SPACE-TALK

There’s a cockeyed feeling in the world today
That power politics is here to stay.
But China, Russia and the U.S.A.
Boy--don’t let them fool you!
     Take a look at this world of ours,
     Just one mud ball in the sea of stars.
     Other planets have no color-bars,
     ’Cause they’ve got perspective.
Yanks and Russkies put men into space,
But it’s all a mad politician’s race,
One-up-manship in this Year of Grace.
It makes you giggle.
     The population stands and stares,
     While men in capsules explore upstairs.
     Why we can’t even manage our own affairs!
     Some cheek--colonization!
Besides, they’ve got people on Venus and Mars.
They got lads and lasses and ma’s and pa’s.
And they’ve got better transport than four-wheel cars.
Have you ever seen ’em?
     Those Flying Saucers whisking through our skies
     Must take some power to make them rise.
     But government departments just hide their eyes,
     And call them meteors!
With all the lies that they print and shout,
The general public’s got its work cut out--
Figuring what it’s all about.
But just you keep on trying.
     I suppose you know why I’m telling you this,
     So you won’t shriek or shake your fist
     When you discover Martians do exist!
     They’re real nice fellows.
I know, ’cause I met one a week ago!
His ship came down for an hour or so.
He talked to me, but then he had to go.
Real interested I was!
     Got brothers on Venus and Saturn, it seems--
     Fly their ships on magnetic beams.
     They wear one piece suits--you can’t see any seams;
     But apart from that--they’re just like us!

The powers that be will tell us we’re alone.
They’ll tell us that in space we are unique;
On this little desert island we call Earth
The human race is just a kind of freak.
When we send our envoys into space
There’ll be a smile upon this planet’s face,
’Cause brother, right out there--I’m telling you,
There’s another human race; it’s very true!
     They’re a very, very peaceful crowd,
     For they just never go to war.
     And they cannot interfere,
     This is by Universal Law.
     The spaceman’s message to us all
     Is based on how to banish fear,
     And if we only understand,
     We will find it heaven here.
While we must rely on war,
We never will be happy here.
While this world’s economy
Is based on hardship, strife and fear.
How do they live without a war
In their lands of milk and honey?
They don’t need economy,
Because they don’t use any money!
     They cannot give us any ships,
     So we must try and build our own.
     But they are waiting right out there,
     Oh, my friends, we’re not alone!
     How do they go at such great speed,
     And vanish then without prediction?
     Because they use free energy,
     And there isn’t any friction.
Brother have you seen their ships?
Sisters have you seen them glow,
As they dance and hover in the sky,
And make our fastest jets look slow?

5

--- PAGE 13 ---
NEW SAUCER PHOTOS: These remarkable photos of Flying Saucers were taken by Dr. Daniel W. Fry,
President of Understanding, Inc., of P.O. Box 76, Merlin, Oregon 97532. Your editor enlarged them
from the original 16mm color movie film. Spots on the photos are due to the extreme enlargement of
scratches and dust spots on the film. Of special interest is the fact that the same type of craft was
photographed near Merlin, Oregon in a wooded section, and again near Joshua Tree, Calif. on the desert.

2    THE WALL STREET JOURNAL
Monday, December 13, 1965

New ‘Fireball’ Raises
An Old Question: Do
Flying Saucers Exist?

Californian, Who ‘Talks’ to Men
From the Stars, Says ‘Yes’;
Scientists Assail Air Force

By ELIOT CARLSON
Staff Reporter of THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

They’re back. The latest was sighted a few
nights ago by residents and pilots in the north-
ern tier of states and Canada. They described
it as an orange fireball. The Air Force at first
called it an unidentified flying object, but now
thinks it was a meteor. Some other people
called it a flying saucer.

Several people say they saw the fireball land
Thursday night. An 11-year-old boy in Lorain,
Ohio, says he watched it drop into the woods
near his home. A woman in Elyria, Ohio, 10
miles away, claims she saw it plunge into a
vacant lot across the street from her home.
Others say they saw it streak into Lake Michi-
gan. Scientists and police combed a 75-acre
area near Pittsburgh after a woman there saw
the object crash to earth “smoldering.”

Despite these witnesses and search efforts,
however, the thing has yet to be found. In this
regard, it is like all other unidentified flying
objects, or UFOs, which are mysterious be-
cause they are seen but never found.

Whatever it turns out to be—meteor, satel-
lite part, hoax, weather oddity or man from
Mars—it appeared in a banner year for such
objects, which almost disappeared from public
consciousness following a rash of reports of
flying saucers in the mid-1950s. “We’ve had
more reports this year than in any year since
1957, when we had more than a thousand,” says
a spokesman for Project Blue Book, the Air
Force program set up in 1948 to evaluate re-
ports of the phenomena.

Visitors From Outer Space

Nobody knows what the objects are or where
they come from, but there is no lack of theories
—or of controversy. The Amalgamated Flying
Saucer Clubs of America, Inc., is sure the
“saucers” come from outer space. How do
they know? The “space people” have told
them.

Not only that, says Gabriel Green, who
heads the California group, “space people give
contactees information about life on other
planets and solutions to insurmountable prob-
lems on our planet.” One suggestion allegedly
made to Mr. Green in 1960 by a visit from Al-
pha Centauri, a nearby star: Run for Presi-
dent as a write-in candidate. (He campaigned
briefly, then decided not to run.)

The National Investigations Committee on
Aerial Phenomena (NICAP), a private re-
search organization in Washington, doesn’t
hold with that theory. “We reject reports of
noble beings landing on earth to solve all our
problems,” says a spokesman. So men from
Mars are a lot of bunk? Not necessarily, says
the committee. It believes a Congressional in-
vestigation would prove that UFOs “are real
physical objects . . . under the control of living
beings.” As an afterthought, the spokesman
says: “There are a tremendous number of ego-
maniacs who have been able to appoint them-
selves experts in this field because it’s so con-
fused.”

One man who’s not confused at all is Charles
A. Maney, professor emeritus of physics and
mathematics at Defiance College in Ohio. Says
the professor: “These objects are unquestion-
ably from outer space.” He bases his reason-
ing on the fact that the objects often interfere
with local electrical circuits, indicating to him
they have “a means of propulsion associated
with magnetic fields.”

“There’s Nothing To It”

Such notions are scoffed at by astronomers.
“Nonsense. All this is imagination outside the
realm of science,” says Donald H. Menzel, di-
rector of the observatory at Harvard. “I have
examined Air Force cases and discovered that
UFOs all have simple explanations in terms
of well-known natural phenomena. There’s not
one cause, but hundreds. Some are quite spec-
tacular, such as reflections from ice crystals or
bright stars, searchlights on clouds or high-
flying spider webs. But to some people the exis-
tence of flying saucers is a matter of religious
fanaticism,” he says.

But Mr. Menzel reads more into the Air
Force data than does the Air Force itself. Of
the 9,786 UFO reports made to the Air Force
since 1947, 673 remain classified as “unidenti-
fied,” a spokesman says. He defines this cate-
gory as containing sightings whose pertinent
data can’t be correlated with any known object
or phenomena.

The spokesman quickly adds: “We have nev-
er received nor discovered any evidence that
proves the existence of intraspace mobility or
extraterrestrial life and we continue to extend
an open invitation to anyone who feels he pos-
sesses any evidence of such vehicles operating
in our atmosphere.” And he states: “No UFO
report evaluated by the Air Force has ever
given any indication of a threat to our national
security.”

The Air Force’s approach disturbs some
people, however. “The Air Force should admit
there are natural phenomena taking place un-
der our noses of which we know nothing,” says
L. M. Levitt, director of Fels Planetarium at the
Franklin Institute in Philadelphia. He adds:
“The Air Force is trying to explain something
that isn’t susceptible to explanation.”

Robert Risser, director of the Oklahoma Sci-
ence and Art Foundation planetarium at Okla-
homa City, believes “the Air Force must have
had its star-finder upside down during Aug-
ust,” when several reports of flying saucers
were ascribed by the Air Force to sightings of
stars. “The constellations of Taurus and Orion
weren’t visible at the time the Air Force said
the sightings were made. I think they made an
error.”

The whole problem, says J. Allen Hynek,
chairman of the department of astronomy at
Northwestern University and a consultant to
the Air Force, is that the matter should be
studied more thoroughly.

“Pressures to conformity in academic cir-
cles and fear of ridicule have slowed the
study,” according to Robert Hall, a sociology
professor at the University of Illinois in Chi-
cago.

“The possibility of life on Mars is an un-
popular thing to consider these days,” says
Frank B. Salisbury, a professor of plant phy-
siology at Colorado State University. At the
risk of being unpopular, Mr. Salisbury told the
fifth annual Space Conference this year that
“there may be some natural explanation of
these things, but a tentative possibility to be
considered is that UFOs are spaceships from
Mars.”

Fueling the flying-saucer controversy has
been the large number of reports from what
many people consider reliable witnesses—pilots
with technical backgrounds. Since 1947, more
than 100 private, military and commercial pilots
have reported spotting strange objects in the
sky; according to one study.

Pinning down such reports is difficult, how-
ever. “Some of the boys did report things they
couldn’t identify a few years ago,” says a
spokesman for American Airlines. “But our
pilots haven’t made a report for years.”

Nevertheless, “we have on file a great num-
ber of reports from pilots who don’t want their
names used but still want to tell somebody
what they’ve seen,” claims J. B. Hartranft, Jr.,
president of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots As-
sociation. And he says: “I haven’t drawn any
conclusions myself, but I think we’ve certainly
got a good mystery on our hands.”

London, Ontario Free Press 3-26-66

100 Watch UFO

Disc-Like Object Hovers, Rises
For Two Hours East of Kettle Point

By JIM ETHERINGTON
Free Press Sarnia Bureau

SARNIA — A revolving ob-
ject, sighted in the sky east
of Kettle Point last night, was
watched for more than two
hours by about 100 persons.

Lawrence Bressette, who op-
erates a store on the Kettle
Point Indian Reserve, said a
motorist brought the object to
his attention about 8 p.m. He
said he looked at it through
binoculars and could see red,
blue, green and white lights
flashing from the disc-shaped
object.

Mr. Bressette said it re-
mained motionless for about
an hour flashing lights, then
slowly began to rise. Cloud
cover rolled in about 10 p.m.,
allowing only periodic sight-
ings.

“I’ve never seen anything
like this,” he said. “We all
saw it. It was low — about 200
or 300 feet off the ground to
the east. Then it slowly began
to move up.”

Mr. Bressette said it could
not have been swamp gas
which was suggested was the
cause of unidentified flying
object sightings in the Detroit
area last week.

“I’ve seen swamp gas lights.
This was not the same,” he
said. “Besides there hasn’t
been any swamp gas lights
around here since before the
war.”

Mr. Bressette said his broth-
er, Jeffery, also reported see-
ing an object over Sarnia. This
one stayed stationary for a
short time then shot across
the sky at a very high speed.

An officer in control opera-
tions at Selfridge Air Force
Base, Mount Clemens, Mich.,
said the Canadian sighting
was the fourth reported to
him last night. The other
three were from the Detroit
area.

He said no radar reports
had been obtained on any of
the sightings.

Mr. Bressette reported jet
planes in the area at one
point while the group watched
along the Lake Huron shore.
But there was no possibility
the object he saw was a jet.

In Michigan new reports of
UFO sightings were received
Saturday night as far north
as the tip of the “Thumb” in
Lake Huron.

Odd lights were reported in
the sky over Oakland County
and the neighboring Detroit
area. Others were reported
westward in the Lansing area.

Dr. J. Allen Hynek of North-
western University, scientific
consultant to the U.S. Air
Force said phenomena seen
at Dexter and Hillsdale on the
night of March 20 probably
were the result of swamp
gases.

Sheriff Douglas Harvey of
Washtenaw County and civil
defence director William Van
Horn of Hillsdale County criti-
cized Dr. Hynek’s report.
Van Horn said the swamp gas
explanation was an attempt
to “explain it away arbitrar-
ily.”

Flying Saucers
Gain Prominence

5-26-66

N.Y. Daily News Dispatch

NEW YORK — The nephew of
the late Dag Hammarskjold
has startled America’s top
science writers by telling them
he believes that flying saucers
exist and that they come from
outer space.

Knut Hammarskjold, whose
late uncle was secretary gener-
al of the United Nations, spoke
to a convention here of the avi-
ation-space writers associa-
tion.

Hammarskjold also suggested
that our space neighbors are
becoming more and more inter-
ested in what people are doing
on earth.

“The possible existence of
neighbors in space will, if con-
firmed, create problems of le-
gal, political and technical
characteristics,” he said.

Hong Kong China Mail

Flying
saucers
mystery

2-3-66

PEOPLE in North Queens-
land are mystified by
three separate reports of
Flying Saucers.

The first report came from a
27-year-old banana grower, Mr
G. Pedley, who while driving a
tractor through a neighbouring
property on his way to his own
farm, heard a loud hissing noise
above the noise of the tractor.

Suddenly about 25 yards
ahead of him, a blue-grey saucer
shaped craft about 25 ft across,
and 9ft high, rose vertically to
about 60ft and travelling at a
terrific speed headed off in a
south-westerly direction.

On investigation, a nest
of flattened reeds was found,
the circle being about 30ft
in diameter and since then
four other nests have been
found close by, some of them
newly made.

During the last eight months,
no less than seven different
sightings of Flying Saucers have
been reported in the North
Queensland press.

Hundreds of sightseers have
flocked to the Horseshoe Lagoon
in the Tully District during the
last few days to view the circles
which are partly hidden by
dense scrub.

The RAAF has taken the
reports seriously enough to
ask for clippings from the
nests which will be
examined, and any further
flying saucer sightings from
the area will be investigated.

Feb. 7, 1966
Los Angeles Herald-Examiner A-11

UN Watch For Saucers Urged

UNITED NATIONS, N.Y.,
Feb. 7 (AP)—Colman Von-
keviczky, an employe in the
U.N. Office of Public Infor-
mation, proposed to Secre-
tary-General U Thant today
that members of the United
Nations establish a network
to observe flying saucers.

Vonkeviczky, who says
he believes someone in out-
er space is sending flying
saucers regularly on test
flights to earth.

He told Thant only the
United Nations could be ex-
pected to have sufficient
authority to establish con-
tact or represent mankind
in a face-to-face meeting
with extraterrestrial visi-
tors.

4-18-66

“Report Them . . . Forget It—
I Have Enough Credibility Problems As It Is”

STRANGE OBJECT
OVER MT. WILSON

A-2    Los Angeles Herald-Examiner    Thursday, April 21, 1966

There was something over
Mount Wilson early today but
it didn’t catch the entire city
napping.

Police and newspaper
switchboards were flooded
with calls describing the
object variously as a “puff,”
a “greenish ball,” a “flat
oval green object with a
long tail and a light at the
end.”

It was first sighted about
4 a.m. and remained in view
for about half an hour.

A similar fireball was
sighted about the same
time from Sacramento and
from Vandenberg Air Force
Base, it was reported.

Vandenberg reported no
launches during the
preceding 24 hours which
might account for the phe-
nomenon and said radar
there picked up “no unusu-
al activity” during the peri-
od.

An Air Force spokesman
at Vandenberg said the Air
Force’s “Project Blue
Book” office in Washington
was investigating.

An observer at Mather
Air Force Base near Sacra-
mento theorized that the ob-
ject may have been gas res-
idue left from Nevada
missile firings which re-
flected light.

Sgt. David Tollstson, of
Hollywood division, said the
object here appeared to be
over Griffith Park. “It was a
bright green splotch, elon-
gated, and not blinking,” he
said.

The only solid fact emerg-
ing: A lot of people are up at
4 a.m.

--- PAGE 14 ---
World Flying Saucer
Believers Convene

2-6-66
MINNEAPOLIS TRIBUNE

New York Times Service

LOS ANGELES, Calif. —
The “urgent problem” of
improving communications
with the thousands of visitors
from outer space who sup-
posedly are circling the earth
was afforded solemn delib-
eration here this weekend at
a special convention of fly-
ing saucer buffs.

Among the nearly 300 dele-
gates was a self-professed
“interplanetary traveler”
named Standing Horse, an
Englishwoman who regularly
issues mimeographed reports
on her conversations with
space travelers, a man who
offered to book “group
sightings” of flying saucers
and a presidential candidate
campaigning on the flying
saucer ticket.

THE SPACE buffs, who
assembled in a cavernous es-
tablishment called the Blar-
ney Castle, weren’t much im-
pressed with Thursday’s So-
viet moon landing, but they
were awed and confused by
what they reported to be a
sharp increase in flying
saucers.

One delegate, Marianne
Francis, warned that the
sightings could mark the be-
ginning of some “ominous
changes” for the earth’s pop-
ulation. But the convention
chairman, Dr. Frank
Stranges, said the “interplan-
etary visitors” would turn
out to be “angelic creatures
whose mission is to help
mankind.”

The delegates were gen-
erally well groomed, articu-
late men and women who
could have blended into any
PTA meeting. Many were
heads of organizations whose
members spotted and photo-
graphed “unidentified flying
objects” and claimed to main-
tain telepathic communica-
tion with space travelers.

NEARLY ALL agreed that
what they called the “flying
saucer movement” was un-
dergoing sharp expansion.
Two delegates announced
they were negotiating to pur-
chase radio stations to help
transmit their theories. Sev-
eral flying saucer magazines
and hundreds of books were
on sale at the convention.

“These people are contac-
tee-oriented,” explained Gab-
riel Green, a serious young
man who served as president
of the Amalgamated Flying
Saucer Clubs of America.

“They accept craft as a
fact of life. Their interest is
in contacting spacemen di-
rectly or through telepathy.”

Green, who regularly runs
for president as a “space age
candidate,” says he cannot
practice telepathy but insists
he has met spacemen on at
least six occasions. The last
of his visitors, he said, was
four feet tall and came from
the Alpha Centauri solar
system.

A muscular, even-featured
young man named Wesley
Bateman said he never had
met spacemen but that he
was in “constant communica-
tion with them through tele-
pathy” and offered a pro-
gram of instruction to other
delegates who sought similar
contacts. His blonde wife,
Jonell, attired in black Leo-
tards, was kept busy signing
up “students.”

“There is no mystery as to
whether the space men are
watching us — some have al-
ready infiltrated our society,”
said Bateman. “The mystery
is why so many are coming.
What’s going to happen?”


2 SOUTH AFRICAN POLICEMEN
REPORT SIGHTING OF ‘SAUCER’

JOHANNESBURG, South Afri-
ca—South African police and
scientists investigated Thursday
a report that a flying saucer-
type object had landed on a
main highway near Pretoria, the
country’s administrative capital.

Two patrolling police officers
reported seeing the flaming
“saucer,” about 30 feet in di-
ameter, shortly after midnight.
One of them, Koos de Klerk,
said that the shiny copper-col-
ored object resembled a giant
spinning top.

The two men claimed that, as
they approached the object, it
took off silently at great speed
with flames shooting out of its
underside.

Scientists who examined the
spot where the officers said that
they saw the object are reported
to have found that a six-foot
wide section of the tarred road
had been badly burned. Grass
on either side of the highway
also was reported slightly
scorched.

THE BOSTON HERALD, FRIDAY, SEPT. 17, 1965


It’ll be Long Before
“Saucer” Is Forgotten

JANUARY 15, 1966
THE HERALD-NEWS

By PETER A. DVARACKAS

[illegible]

“Listen . . . this sounds crazy,
but I saw something in the sky.
Do you know what it is?” This
was the question posed to the
police at the North Jersey police
radio hook-up in Pompton Lakes.
The calls came in from Wana-
que, Ringwood, West Milford,
Paterson, Totowa, Wayne and
Butler.

[illegible]

At Wanaque, the state’s
largest water storage basin, con-
tinue to maintain a nightly vigil
at the headworks, in Ringwood
Avenue and Westbrook Road,
to spot that weird disk of light
which was seen as late as Thurs-
day night making sharp dips and
maneuvers over the reservoir.

[illegible]


BROTHER JUNIPER  BY FR. JUSTIN McCARTHY & LEN RENO

[illegible]

“These flying saucer stories are getting more ridicu-
lous every day.”


Flying Saucers
2-3-66

(To the Editor, S.C.M. Post)

Sir,—Citizens beware! This is
not a drill! If you report what
you see, your report will be
treated as hallucination. Your
honest desire to help solve an
aeronautical mystery will be
discounted by harassing con-
frontation by paid investigators
who are instructed to suppress
the authenticity of their investi-
gation.

[illegible]


PC REPORTS ‘I
SAW 6 FLYING
SAUCERS . . .’

DAILY SKETCH
Tuesday, May 17, 1966

POLICE CONSTABLE Donald Cameron made out a report
last night and hoped the Chief Constable would believe
that he really DID see six flying saucers.

PC Cameron was at home on sick leave when he looked out
a window and saw six glowing objects hovering in the distance.

“I thought I was seeing things and called my wife,” he said last night.
“We watched them for about 30 seconds before they disappeared at speed
towards Manchester.

“They were about a mile
away. I could see them
clearly, even though it was
a dull day. They were white
and glowing.

“One was bigger than
the others with a cup-
shaped dome — obviously
the mother ship. The
others were oval,” he added.

As he made out his re-
port at his home in Chil-
tern-road, St. Helens,
Lancs., Pc Cameron said:
“I suppose I will get
some ribbing from the lads,
but that is not what
worries me . . . it’s what
the Chief Constable thinks.”


Flying Object
Sighted in Illinois

NORMAL, Ill.—UPI—Sev-
eral persons living on the
same block here said they
saw an unidentified flying
object last night.

The object had four blink-
ing lights, red, white, blue
and green, proceeded north-
easterly, hovered over a
grove of trees, then returned
southwesterly. The object
was seen first by the Merle
Simpson family, then others.
They said it was flat and
small.


UFO spotted 5-16-66

PASADENA (AP)—Scores of
startled residents called news-
papers and police after sighting
what they described as blinking,
moving lights in the skies over
the San Gabriel Valley last
night.

Officers said some residents
saw the lights “travel fast, then
slow, then stop.” They said one
Pasadena area resident report-
ed the smell of perfume as the
lights appeared and moved.

[illegible]


Paterson News
Jan. 15, 1966

Spotters Jam Up-County
Roads for UFO Glimpse

RINGWOOD — If the little
men from outer space had the
up-county police on the run
Tuesday, their earthly counter-
parts caused more trouble Fri-
day night.

Throngs of the curious ringed
normally deserted Wanaque
Reservoir in this small hamlet
and created what old timers
say is the first traffic jam in
the history of the borough. The
cars parked along Westbrook
Road and Route 511.

Ringwood Police Lieutenant
Jack O’Hara said “We told
them to move on, but they kept
coming back on the other side
of the road, so we just had to
give a couple of them sum-
monses. They had everything,
cameras, binoculars, tele-
scopes. I was waiting to see one
of them get out with a geiger
counter.”

The sky watchers were out
in force after wide spread pub-
lication of the sighting of uni-
dentified flying objects over the
reservoir. The elusive thing in
the sky, however had failed to
make a return appearance Fri-
day.

[illegible]


GOLDEN GATE
Handicap—Results

Oakland Tribune

METRO PM
FINAL

93rd YEAR, NO. 84
FRIDAY, MARCH 25, 1966
10¢ DAILY, $2.25 A MONTH

Flying Saucers Are
Poppin’ Up All Over


Flying swamp gas?

Swamp gas or UFO? The civil defense director of Michi-
gan’s Hillsdale County has issued a report challenging an
Air Force study which concludes that swamp gas caused
the UFO sightings in the Hillsdale area in March 1966.
William Van Horn said that, at the time of the sightings,
it was too windy for swamp gas, and chemical analysis
of soil and water disclosed an abnormally high amount of
radiation and boron. Van Horn also released this photo
of a UFO as it flew over Hillsdale County in July 1965.

MONDAY
MAY 16, 1966


Air Force UFO
report refuted

HILLSDALE, Mich. (UPI) —
The Hillsdale County civil
defense director today issued a
94-page report challenging an
Air Force investigation’s
conclusion that “swamp gas”
caused UFO sightings here last
March. He said it was too
windy for swamp gas to form.

[illegible]


“Let’s see the Air Force hush this one up!”

THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR
Monday, May 2, 1966


AIRLINER [unclear: POISED?]
TO CHASE U.F.O.

[illegible]


One Shot
By Man
In Maine

By United Press International

[illegible]


Ohio Police Trail
UFO 86 Miles

CANTON, Ohio — (UPI) —
[illegible]


UFO’s (?) FLASH ACROSS PRE-DAWN SKY

Time exposure taken by Michigan deputy sheriff


NEW PLYMOUTH, TUESDAY, MAY 10, 1966

MYSTERY
OBJECTS
IN SKY

Three mystery objects were photographed in the
pre-dawn darkness over New Plymouth on Sunday
morning.

[illegible]


AUSTIN, Texas, March 28, 1966

40 See ‘Flying Saucer’

[illegible]


Asks Probe of Flying Saucers

Ford Says U.S.
Public Should
Get Answers

WASHINGTON BUREAU

WASHINGTON, March 25—
Raising a belief that the Air
Force [illegible] to make
public [illegible] evidence
of reports of flying saucers,
Rep. Gerald R. Ford (R-Mich)
today asked [illegible] House
Armed Services Committee
investigation.

“I do not agree that all of
these reports can or should be
[illegible] explained away,”
Ford said in letters to
[illegible] of the House Armed
Services Committee and the
[illegible] Appropriations sub-
committee in charge of the
Air Force.

[illegible]


Portland Oregon Journal
March 21, 1966

Now those flying saucers
come to Canadian skies

Those puzzling flying sau-
cers invaded Canada last
night.

Sightings were reported
in Toronto, Hamilton, Sar-
nia, and Kitchener-Water-
loo.

[illegible]


Maine 5-11-66

Auburn Police
Get Another
Report on UFO

Auburn police got another call
of the “UFO” variety last night.

[illegible]


FIRST UFO SPOTTER

[illegible]

KENNETH ARNOLD, the Boise businessman who started the
flurry of flying saucer sightings in 1947, displays a drawing
he made after a sighting near Mt. Rainier in Washington. Ar-
nold said flashing bright discs from the dark spot in the cen-
ter. (AP Wirephoto)


BREWER Welcomes
UFOs

LANDING SITES AVAILABLE

SIGNED-- Barry Wersal  MAYOR


Michigan
UFO Lands
In Swamp

ANN ARBOR, Mich. (UPI)
— At least 40 persons saw an
[illegible] object flying silently
and in a strange manner
[illegible]

[illegible]


FLYING SAUCER PHOTOS

LIGHT

LIGHT

[unclear: DRAWN BY SHERIFF?]

DIRECTION
OF MOVEMENT

LIGHT

ANTENNA

POLICEMAN and five other persons who saw unidentified
flying object over Ann Arbor Mich., put together this
composite drawing of what they sighted. Drawings made
at Washtenaw County sheriff’s headquarters, shows gen-
eral shape, placement of lights and antenna-like objects,
and motions of a UFO. (UPI Telephoto)


On show at 4:15 a.m.

‘Flying saucer’ pics on show

PTI: MONMOUTH, Ill. —
Pictures of a “flying sau-
cer” taken by a 13-year-old
boy have been released by the
Army at Ft. Monmouth, New
Jersey, and the Monmouth
County Civil Defense Depart-
ment.

[illegible]

These are the objects photographed by 16-year-old Brian Pollock in the pre-dawn sky over
Plymouth on Sunday. At left are the mystery objects as he first saw them, the centre photograph shows
the circular shape to which they changed, and the shot at right was taken after they had reverted back
to their original form. They disappeared soon after this.


BRIAN POLLOCK


OPC Phase
First UFO
— No Arrest

4-18-66

By RICHARD [illegible]

Provincial police appear to
have registered their first
flying saucer chase.

At 2 a.m. this morning two
constables at Three Rivers re-
ported to headquarters that
they were chasing a luminous
spherical object.

[illegible]

--- PAGE 15 ---
Head Saucerer Believes

Martians Are Watching Us

Who’s in All
Those Saucers?

By Harold Scarlett

Was Jesus Christ a Martian?

“It’s hard to say,” said Gabriel Green thoughtfully. Then he added that it certainly seems plausible.

It’s no trick at all to walk on water or ascend to the heavens if you have a Martian levitation belt around your waist and an anti-gravity beam to ride, Green explained.

Furthermore, he said, the Martians now visiting earth on flying saucers are trying to save the earth’s people from their own follies — just as the Savior was.

Green can speak with some authority on these matters because, he says, he met and talked with a Martian once. Also a four-foot man from the Alpha Centauri star system. Also some other unearthly visitors.

SOMETIMES, HE said, he met these flying saucer crewmen by telepathic appointment. The [illegible] arranged through associates of his with telepathic talents.

“And once in a while,” he said, “they would just call on the phone.”

Green, who lives in Los Angeles, is the head saucerer — the president — of the Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America.

[illegible]

4-12-66

“Parking between my ball and the green—I’d hardly
call THAT intelligent life from another planet.”

THE SWAMP GAS IS
RESTLESS TONIGHT.

From B. C., the Post, May 9, 1966

GABRIEL GREEN
Head Saucerer

Saucer
Sighting
DETROIT, MICHIGAN
Report

MARCH 30, 1966

[illegible]

Civil Defense Director
Watches ‘Flying Saucer’

GOLDEN GATE
Handicap--Results

Oakland Tribune

ESTABLISHED FEBRUARY 21, 1874 • OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA

METRO
FINAL PM

93rd YEAR, NO. 81

TUESDAY, MARCH 22, 1966

10c DAILY; $2.25 A MONTH

Eerie 1896 Sighting

By JIM HAZELWOOD

The so-called Unidentified Flying Objects (UFO’s) seen Sunday in Michigan by at least 10 people, recall a bizarre story which appeared in The Tribune 70 years ago.

The date was Nov. 23, 1896, and it reported that many persons saw an “airship” flying over Oakland.

But this date was 10 years before the Wright brothers made the first successful heavier-than-air flight at Kitty Hawk.

Aerial balloons, however, had been known for decades.

The Oakland “airship” was the talk of the town for days and a number of other sightings were reported, from as far away as Red Bluff.

Although the original story said the craft resembled a “huge bird,” later sightings described it as egg-shaped with lights at both ends.

It should be borne in mind that shapes of aircraft and estimates of airspeed were still sciences of the future when the following story, reproduced in part, was written.

“That a huge airship has been hovering over Oakland for the last few nights has in the minds of many been conclusively proven. A number of persons whose integrity is unquestionable have seen the strange navigator of the air and this number includes many whose skepticism has been pronounced.

[illegible]

87 Coeds
Observe
‘Object’

HILLSDALE, Mich. (UPI)--A county civil defense director and 87 co-eds said today they watched an eerie, hovering flying object settle in a swampy hollow near a college dormitory last night.

William Van Horn, 41, Hillsdale county civil defense director for 10 years, said he watched the unidentified object through binoculars for three hours.

[illegible]

Binghamton, N. Y., October 24, 1965

THE SUNDAY PRESS

ENCOUNTER WITH A SPACE SHIP

‘I Know What I Saw’;
Egg-Shaped Craft

By KEITH GEORGE

Newark Valley—Gary T. Wilcox is a young man dogged by rumors.

People say his dairy farm has gone bust because nothing will grow on the land.

Others who meet him on the street express surprise, saying they’d heard he was in a New York City hospital suffering from radiation burns.

One story has it his land is under guard for government study and that there is a darkened patch in his pasture where nothing will grow.

The handsome, 28-year-old farmer says none of these tales is true.

But the strangest of all, and the basis for the rumors, is his encounter with a space ship and its talk with its eerie crew 17 months ago.

That happened, Mr. Wilcox says.

“I know what I saw for two hours. I was talking with them and even joking with them.”

GARY WILCOX

[illegible]

Don Winters County Calif.
Star-Free Press
4-1-66

Two In County
Claim They Saw
‘Glowing’ UFO

At least two Ventura County people saw a glowing object Wednesday night, prompting dozens of calls to Point Mugu NAS.

[illegible]

SUNDAY, MAY 15, 1966, THE HOUSTON POST

PAGE 4—SPOTLIGHT

SAUCER OR STRAW HAT, THIS FLEW IN CALIFORNIA LAST AUGUST
Highway Patrolman [illegible] Photographed It Through His Car Windshield

THE PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER, MONDAY MORNING, APRIL 18, 1966

UFO Plays Tag With Deputies in 85-Mile Chase

RAVENNA, O., April 17 (UPI). Portage county sheriff’s deputies [illegible]

[illegible]

A-8 Los Angeles Herald-Examiner

Mysterious Sky Objects Have Texans in Dither

MEMPHIS, Tex., May 17, (AP) — Rural residents told of seeing a cigar-shaped object zoom from the sky yesterday, and two men said it caught fire and burned without apparent cause.

[illegible]

3-25-66

“TV’s flying-saucer-sighting time and I’m determined to see one!”

2—Nevada State Journal

Tuesday, May 10, 1966

★ GALLUP POLL

More Than 5 Million People
Say They Saw Flying Saucers

By GEORGE GALLUP

More than five million Americans claim to have seen something they believed to be a “flying saucer.” And, about 19 times as many people — nearly half of the U.S. adult civilian population — believe that these frequently reported flying objects, while not necessarily “saucers,” are real and not just a figment of the imagination.

[illegible]

GALLUP POLL
Sheriff Aides
Chase; A UFO;
Were ‘Close’

RAVENNA, Ohio (AP)—We were close, closer than I ever want to be again,” said a deputy sheriff who chased an unidentified flying object from Ohio into Pennsylvania.

[illegible]

--- PAGE 16 ---
FLYING SAUCERS ARE REAL!

READ
"AFSCA WORLD REPORT"
12 ISSUES - $3.00

AMALGAMATED FLYING SAUCER CLUBS of AMERICA
Gabriel Green, Pres., 2004 N. Hoover St., Los Angeles, Calif.

--- PAGE 17 ---
62-83894-448

--- PAGE 18 ---
OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10  
MAY 1962 EDITION  
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27  
5010-106

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO :            DIRECTOR, FBI                         DATE:      10/3/66

FROM :          SAC, LOS ANGELES (100-24442-40/).

SUBJECT:        FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL,  
                OFFICIAL JOURNAL OF THE  
                AMALGAMATED FLYING SAUCER  
                CLUBS OF AMERICA, INC.  
                IS - MISCELLANEOUS

[handwritten: [illegible]]  
[handwritten: O FLYING SAUCERS]  
[handwritten: MAGAZINE]

The Philadelphia Division by letter dated 9/22/66,  
furnished the Los Angeles Division with Issue No. 24 dated  
July, 1966, entitled "FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL", which is  
the official journal of the Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs  
of America, Inc.  The Philadelphia Division received the  
magazine from Mr. JARVIS H. COOPER, IRS, 401 North Broad Street,  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on 9/19/66.  Mr. COOPER stated he  
subscribed to the magazine because his son had exhibited an  
interest in flying saucers and outer space.  He said that on  
pages 2 and 3 of Issue No. 24 was an article which he believed  
expounded the Communist Party (CP) line.

For the information of the Bureau, the International  
Headquarters of the Amalgamated Flying Saucer Clubs of America,  
Inc. is located at 2004 North Hoover Street, Los Angeles,  
California.  The article, on pages 2 and 3, were allegedly  
written by Master KALEN-IL RETAN, Head of the planet KORENDOR,  
which was received on 5/4/66 by special directional short-wave  
radio by BOB RENAUD.

[handwritten: U.S.A.]

The indices of the Los Angeles Division contain no  
information identifiable with RENAUD, and no investigation has  
ever been conducted on captioned organization.  [stamp: ENCL. BEHIND FILE]

No further action is contemplated in this matter  
by the Los Angeles Office, UACB.

[handwritten: EX-114]  REC-6 62-83894-449

The foregoing is furnished to the Bureau for  
information.

[stamp: ENCLOSURE]  
2 - Bureau (RM) [handwritten: (ENC-1)]  
1 - Los Angeles  
JST:gcw  
(3)

[stamp: 4 OCT. 5 1966]

[signature/handwriting: [illegible]]

[stamp: CRIME RESEARCH]

[stamp: ENCL. BEHIND FILE]

[stamp: 61 OCT 13 1966]

[handwritten: [illegible]]

--- PAGE 19 ---
Los Angeles                                                10/5/66

Director, FBI

SAC, Los Angeles ([unclear: 100-24112?])

FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL,
OFFICIAL JOURNAL;
INTERPLANETARY FLYING SAUCER
CLUBS OF AMERICA, INC.
IS - MISCELLANEOUS


The Philadelphia Division by letter dated 9/22/66,
furnished the Los Angeles Division with issue No. 21, dated
July, 1966, captioned FLYING SAUCERS INTERNATIONAL, which is
the official journal of the Interplanetary Flying Saucer Clubs
of America, Inc. The Philadelphia Division received the
magazine from R. [unclear: LATANE?] H. COOPER, JR., 401 North Broad Street,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on 9/19/66. MR. COOPER stated he
subscribed to the magazine because his son had exhibited an
interest in flying saucers and outer space. He said that on
pages 2 and 3 of issue No. 21, was an article which he believed
expounded the Communist Party (CP) line.

For the information of the Bureau, the International
Headquarters of the Interplanetary Flying Saucer Clubs of America,
Inc. is located at 2004 North Hoover Street, Los Angeles,
California. The article, on pages 2 and 3, were allegedly
written by Master [illegible], head of the Planet [illegible].
This was reported on 5/1/66 by special direct-oral short-wave
radio by RONALD.

The indices of the Los Angeles Division contain no
information identifiable with RONALD, and no investigation has
ever been conducted on captioned organization. [illegible]

No further action is contemplated in this matter
by the Los Angeles Office, UACB.

The foregoing is furnished to the Bureau for
information.


[stamp: REC'D - SULLIVAN
FBI - WAITE
OCT 5 3:25 PM '66]

[stamp: REC'D
[unclear: M&M INTELL DIV.]
OCT 5 2 56 PM 66]

[stamp: FBI
RECEIVED
OCT 5 1 26 PM '66]

[stamp: OCT 6 1966
MR. JONES]

[unclear: D1 OCT 13 1966]

--- PAGE 20 ---
[stamp: REC. 65]

62-83894-450

EX-113

October 17, 1966

Mr. Paul L. Wright  
1331 Lucile Avenue, Southwest  
Atlanta, Georgia 30310

Dear Mr. Wright:

Your letter of October 9th has been received.

With respect to your inquiry, matters pertaining to  
sightings of Unidentified Flying Objects or Flying Saucers are not  
within the jurisdiction of the FBI.

Inasmuch as your communication is of interest to  
another governmental agency, I am referring a copy of it to the  
Director of Special Investigations, The Inspector General, De-  
partment of the Air Force, Washington, D. C. 20333.

Sincerely yours,  
J. Edgar Hoover

[stamp: MAILED 11 / OCT 17 1966 / COMM-FBI]

NOTE: We have had one outgoing to correspondent dated 3/10/66 in  
response to his letter regarding the TV program, "The FBI." A  
copy of his letter is being sent by form to the Department of the Air  
Force.

DFC:rlf (3)

[stamp: OCT 17 3 44 PM ’66 / REC’D-READING ROOM / FBI]

Tolson ______  
DeLoach ______  
Mohr ______  
Wick ______  
Casper ______  
Callahan ______  
Conrad ______  
Felt ______  
Gale ______  
Rosen ______  
Sullivan ______  
Tavel ______  
Trotter ______  
Tele. Room ______  
Holmes ______  
Gandy ______

MAIL ROOM □   TELETYPE UNIT □

[illegible]

7708 [illegible]

[illegible]

WILLIAMS 4724

--- PAGE 21 ---
October 17, 1966

Mr. and Mrs. [illegible]  
1411 [illegible] Avenue  
Garden Grove, 92640  
California

Dear Mr. and Mrs. [illegible]:

Your letter of October 6th has been received.

While [illegible] to your family's [illegible] pertaining to  
the [illegible] of [illegible] Edwin O. [illegible] or Floyd [illegible] [illegible]  
within the jurisdiction of the FBI.

Inasmuch as your communication is of interest to  
another governmental agency, I am enclosing a copy of it to the  
Director of Special Investigations, The Inspector General, De-  
partment of the Air Force, Washington, D. C. 20333

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover

[stamp:] MAILED 11  
OCT 17 1966  
COMM-FBI

NOTE: We have had one [illegible] to correspondent dated 3/10/66 in  
response to his letter regarding the TV program, "The FBI." A  
copy of his letter is being sent by airtel to the Department of the Air  
Force.

[stamp:] FBI  
REC'D DE LOACH  
OCT 17 12 33 PM 66

[stamp:] RECEIVED-DIRECTOR  
F.B.I.  
OCT 17 4 08 PM 66

[stamp:] LAX13

[unclear: REC'D]

--- PAGE 22 ---
[handwritten: [illegible]]

1331 Lucile Ave. S.W.
Atlanta, Ga. 30310
Oct. 9,1966

Office of the Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
United States
Dept. of Justice
Washington,D.C.20535

Sir:
     For the past twenty years the United
States has been having an increase in the
problem of the U.F.O. or “[underlined: Flying Saucers]”
and nothing is being done about it,as it
should be.
     The Air Force has maintained that the
sightings have been gas,light,weather,etc.
but by talking to some of the people that
have seen U.F.O.’s I’m wondering if the
Air Force isn’t lying.
     I’m not the only one wondering this,
for the people that I have talked to say
that after the Michigan sightings and the
others they would not report it to the Air
Force if they did see a U.F.O..
     Reports say that even F.B.I. Agents have
seen U.F.O.’s and this has been denied by
the Air Force.
     The report recently about the police
officer in Ohio or Penn. having serious
family trouble as well as being ridiculed
by people because of his sighting,along with
a fellow police officer,of a U.F.O..
     I see by this that the faith in our
Air Force is beginning [stamp: REC’D [illegible]] to decline and if this
is so then we may be putting ourselves in
the terrible position,as did Nazi Germany
in the 1930’s.
     I wish to know if [stamp: EX-117] [unclear: agents?] have seen
any U.F.O’s

[stamp: CORRESPONDENCE]

Sincerely,
Paul L. Wright

[handwritten: [illegible]]

--- PAGE 23 ---
[illegible]

[stamp, inverted: RECD-CORR & FIGURS
F.B.I.
OCT 13 10 52 AM ’66]

[stamp, red: OCT 13]

[stamp, red: 3]

[stamp, red, inverted: CORRESPONDENCE]

--- PAGE 24 ---
[illegible]

[unclear: 994?] 450
12 OCT 20 1966

[illegible]
F55
53 OCT 28 1966

--- PAGE 25 ---
OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10  
5010-104

UNITED STATES GO[illegible]NMENT

Memorandum

TO        :  DIRECTOR, FBI                         DATE:  10/19/66

FROM      :  SAC, SAN FRANCISCO (62-2927)

SUBJECT:    UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS  
            IS - X

[handwritten: O]  
[handwritten: DISCS]

Re Bureau Bulletins No. 57 dated 10/1/47, and No.  
38 dated 3/25/49, entitled "FLYING DISCS."

Enclosed are copies of an article entitled "Armed  
Forces - Focus on UFO", which was published in the This World  
supplement of the San Francisco Examiner & Chronicle, Sunday,  
October 16, 1966.

This article deals with the current controversy over  
the existence or nonexistence of flying saucers or Unidentified  
Flying Objects (UFOs), and quotes Michigan's Congressional  
Representative GERALD FORD as suggesting that Congress look  
into UFOs; also it announces that the Air Force, which is  
charged with investigating UFOs, has commissioned the Univer-  
sity of Colorado and Physics Professor EDWARD U. CONDON to  
conduct an in-depth study of flying saucers for the next 18  
months, at an estimated cost of $300,000.

[handwritten: UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO]

The article also points out that since last summer  
pressure has been mounting for the establishment of an inde-  
pendent, civilian controlled investigative agency to look into  
the UFO problem.

Also, for the Bureau's information, there was re-  
cently published (first printing June 1966) a book entitled  
"Flying Saucers - Serious Business", Lyle Stuart, Inc.,  
publishers, authored by Frank Edwards. This book is now in  
its third edition and is available in paperback, published  
by Bantam Books, and it is probably a contributing factor to  
the current controversy.

In this book author Edwards points out that flying  
saucers were observed in the spring of 1946, in Scandinavia  
and Russia (which he points out is about a year from the date  
of the testing of the Alamogordo atomic bomb), and the book

3 - Bureau (Encls. 3)  
1 - Denver (Encl. 1)  
1 - San Francisco  
DET:lms  
(5)

[stamp: ENCLOSURE]  
[stamp: REC 53]  
[handwritten: 62-83894-451]  
[stamp: 3 OCT 21 1966]  
[stamp: 51 OCT 31 1966]  
[stamp: EX-114]  
[stamp: NAT. INT. SEC.]

--- PAGE 26 ---
R.E.C.O
DOM INTELL DIV.
OCT 21 12 17 PM 56

--- PAGE 27 ---
SF 62-2927
DET:lms

documents many reports throughout the world of UFOs since that
date, and claims that 1965 was the year of the greatest number
of UFO sightings and that these were observed by multiple wit-
nesses.  It is author Edwards' contention that UFOs are space
vehicles sent to observe activities on earth and the Air Force,
which is charged with the responsibility of investigating UFOs,
has deliberately withheld information and given misleading
explanations because it fears a mass panic by the public if
the public were told the truth.

The book describes UFOs as polished metal objects,
radiating heat and light (sufficient to have burned witnesses
who were too near), and emitting some force field that inter-
feres with electromagnetic instruments and power sources.
Colors range from brilliant white to dull reds and brilliant
orange.  Some objects have carried blinking lights.  There are
three basic shapes: 1) zeppelin-shaped ships up to 300 feet
long; 2) disk-shaped objects ranging from a few feet in dia-
meter to 100 feet, with many reported at about 30 feet diameter;
and 3) egg-shaped objects, which according to the author are
the ones most recently sighted.

According to the book, the objects move silently and
attain fantastic speeds, yet can hover motionless in mid-air;
they have been reported to land and to take off with great
speed, usually with a burst of light from the underside, which
in some cases has left the ground beneath them scorched.

Many of the persons named in the book who have re-
ported them are reliable individuals, including law enforce-
ment officers, military personnel on official duty, military
pilots, commercial airline pilots, civilian defense officials,
etc.  A number of photographs of the objects have been repro-
duced in the book, some reportedly taken by reputable persons.
Many reported sightings are from atomic and missile research
areas.

Wreckage of crashed saucers has been reportedly re-
covered on at least three occasions, in one case described as
a magnesium alloy, in another as pure magnesium, and in a third
case, attributed to an official of the Canadian government, the
material was described as an exceptionally hard unknown metal,
actually a matrix of magnesium orthosilicate which contained
thousands of 15-micron metal spheres throughout, and showing
evidence of micro-meteorites on its surface.

- 2 -

--- PAGE 28 ---
SF 62-2927
DET:lms

A few witnesses have reported seeing crewmen who
had landed from the objects, who are described as three and
a half to four feet tall, wearing what appear to be space suits
and helmets.

Author Edwards concludes this book with a prediction
that in the near future UFOs will make an "overt landing" or
deliberate contact with earth.

A copy of this letter is being directed to Denver,
in view of the contract awarded to Dr. EDWARD U. CONDON.

The above is being called to the Bureau's attention
in view of the press report of mounting pressure for a civilian
controlled investigative agency to handle UFO matters.

- 3 -

--- PAGE 29 ---
ARMED FORCES

Focus on UFO

Winking, blinking and nod-
ding — red lights over Pasa-
dena, blue lights over
Greensboro, silver cigars
over Detroit — people kept
seeing strange flying objects,
and officials kept saying
nothing was out there.

But in recent years, and
particularly since last sum-
mer, the pressure had been
mounting for either a full-
scale Congressional investi-
gation or for the establish-
ment of an independent, ci-
vilian-controlled investigato-
ry agency.

It had been a big year for
Unidentified Flying Objects.
The sightings had come in
bunches, the bulk of them
last spring and summer. And
the reports had come from
all over.

“Like Neon Lamps”

Among the most intriguing
items in this year’s crop:

• At Milan, Michigan, 15
miles south of Ann Arbor,
bluish-yellow bars of light
were spotted, looking “like
neon lamps dangling in the
sky.”

• In East Delhi, Mich., a
15-year-old boy called in to
report seeing lights in the
sky alternately standing still
and moving, sometimes
flashing on and off.

• In Altadena and San
Marino, Calif., police switch-
boards logged dozens of calls
after a pair of red lights in
the sky were reported by
residents.

• In Toledo, Ohio, officials
at the local airport received
seven calls from persons who
said they saw a glowing ob-
ject that was red, green and
white.

• In suburban Detroit, a
man saw a noiseless, wing-
less, cigar-shaped flying ob-
ject.

• In Bryan, Texas, resi-
dents said they heard a
star-like object purr.

• Over Valdese, N.C., a
“glowing blue thing” explod-
ed, then lit up the town like a
giant flashbulb.

Sometimes the alleged
sightings spilled over into
the bizarre. A space ship full
of little men allegedly landed
in a farm yard near Hopkins-
ville, Kentucky. The little
men glowed, and they were
described as “three feet tall,
with eyes like saucers and
hands like claws.”

A grain buyer in Nebraska
said he was invited into a
space ship where he chatted
with four men and two wom-
en. They spoke only broken
English — but fluent High
German which, as it hap-
pened, was the grain buyer’s
native tongue.

Silvery Cigar

Nor did America have any
corner on the UFO market.
In Northern Ireland, Tom
Hutchinson saw a saucer
drop into a peat bog near his
home in Moneymore. It was
eggshaped, three feet in di-

UPI Telephoto

DR. CONDON
Saucer-watcher

ameter, 18 inches high. It be-
gan to spin and Hutchinson
grabbed it. He was carrying
it to the police, who de-
scribed him as “level-headed
and God-fearing,” when the
thing twisted out of his hands
and got away.

And in Warminster, Eng-
land, a city council worker
said he saw a silvery cigar
shape drifting over the vil-
lage downs. After a time, he
said, it seemed to stretch.
Then it seemed to divide
amidships with a flash of or-
ange light, although there
was no noise.

Flaming Object

Not all the sightings could
be easily written off as the
phantasmagoria of kooks,
cranks and drunks. And, un-
less one subscribed to a theo-
ry of mass hallucination, it
was difficult to explain away
simultaneous sightings con-
firmed by many rational wit-
nesses — such as the flaming
object that was seen last
April by thousands of East
Coast residents from Wash-
ington to Boston and even
temporarily disrupted a ball
game between the Chicago
White Sox and the Wash-
ington Senators in Wash-
ington, D. C.

Or the incident in Hills-
dale, Michigan last March, in
which a Civil Defense Direc-
tor, an assistant dean, and 87
coeds reported that they had
seen a glowing object zip
past their college dormitory
and hover in a swamp for
hours. Witnesses said they
watched from the second
floor of the Hillsdale College
girls dormitory as the object
wobbled, wavered, glowed
eerily and once zipped right
at a dormitory window be-
fore stopping suddenly.

A Meteor?

The Air Force, charged
with investigating every one

This World, Sunday, October 16, 1966

S. F. Sunday Examiner & Chronicle

62-83894- 451

ENCLOSURE

--- PAGE 30 ---
[illegible] 57

of the 11,000 sightings since
1947, did have some ex-
planations. The mysterious
flaming object in the East
was “probably a meteor.”

As for Michigan’s much-
publicized and plentiful
unidentified flying objects,
they turned out to be
monkeyshines instead of
moonships: “Unidentified
college boys” playing pranks
with flares to frighten the
girls in the dormitories,
came the august report from
a distinguished astronomer
called in by the Air Force to
investigate the Hillsdale af-
fair.

Every report of a “flying
saucer” had ostensibly been
checked out by the Air
Force’s special squad known
as “Project Blue Book,” al-
though the staff was woefully
small. Of the 10,147 sightings
since 1947, the Air Force
insisted that only 646 remain
unexplained — and most of
these because of insufficient
information. The others have
been attributed to planes,
balloons, astronomical
causes, missiles, swamp gas,
meteors, fireworks and, in
some cases, to hallucinations
and psychological reasons.

Ball Lightning?

Philip Klass, avionics edi-
tor of Aviation Week & Space
Technology magazine,
recently proposed some other

explanations. Klass, an
electronics engineer, said a
form of “ball lightning,” gen-
erated by high tension power
lines, could explain the phe-
nomena.

Many of the sightings, said
Klass, occurred along or very
near high-tension lines where
luminous balls of ionized air
could be generated under
certain conditions.

‘No Threat’

The main conclusions
reached by the Air Force
were:

● “No unidentified flying
objects reported, investigat-
ed and evaluated by the Air
Force have ever given any in-
dication of a threat to our
national security.”

● “There has been no ev-
idence submitted to or discov-
ered by the Air Force that
sightings represent techno-
logical developments or prin-
ciples beyond the range of
present day scientific knowl-
edge.”

● “There has been no evi-
dence that sightings catego-
rized as unidentified are ex-
traterrestrial vehicles.”

Major Donald Keyhoe,
however, was unconvinced.
Major Keyhoe, USMC (re-
tired), director of the Nation-
al Investigations Committee
on Aerial Phenomena (NI-
CAP), a private space watch-
ing organization, accused the
Air Force of conducting a
long-term whitewash on the
UFO question.

It was Keyhoe’s theory
that the Air Force was with-
holding information for fear
of causing public panic.
UFOs, insisted the Major,
who had never seen one, were
of extraterrestrial origin and
the Air Force feared that the

public could not accept this
knowledge. “They won’t give
you details,” he complained.
“If they did, many of their
explanations would fall flat.”

And Keyhoe could also
claim a powerful ally in

Michigan’s Gerald Ford, the
House Republican leader,
who suggested it would be “a
very wholesome thing” for
Congress to look into uniden-
tified flying objects. Such an
investigation, Ford suggest-
ed, would make the Ameri-
can people “feel better.”

Study in Depth

Whether or not that was so,
the Air Force last week took
definite steps to make itself
feel better. Fed up with in-
vestigating reports of glow-
ing, flying, zooming, wink-
ing, awesome, blinking,
streaking, hovering things,
the Air Force last week de-
cided to bail itself out of all
responsibility for future con-
clusions concerning UFOs.

The Air Force announced

that it had commissioned the
University of Colorado to
conduct an “in-depth” study
of flying saucers for the next
18 months. The director of
the study (expected to cost
$300,000) would be Dr. Ed-
ward U. Condon, former di-
rector of the National Bureau
of Standards, and now a
physics professor at Colora-
do.

To satisfy the skeptics, and
insure the study’s objectivi-
ty, Colorado would select
several other universities to
take part in the independent
investigation, with about 100
scientists participating.

And in case that wasn’t
enough, the National Acade-
my of Sciences also agreed
to appoint a panel to review
the Colorado report.