--- PAGE 1 ---
A.F.

[strikethrough: SECRET]

July 28, 1952

MEMORANDUM
To: Mr. Armstrong

Paul Nitze asked me what the Air Force thought about the flying
saucers, and I suspect that the others would be interested. I recommend,
therefore, that you pass on the gist of the attached at the morning
meeting tomorrow. Samford gave it to me at the IAC.

F.H.

Subsequently at lunch 5th floor
Paul asked me about it so I
have given the quote of this
to Paul, Doc, Howland, McFall.

Att.

[unclear: F.H. initials]

[strikethrough: SECRET]
DECLASSIFIED NND 852931

--- PAGE 2 ---
[strikethrough: SECRET]

July 28, 1952

MEMORANDUM
Subject: Flying Saucers

General Samford, A-2, in response to my inquiry, said that there is
very little that can be said to clarify the flying saucer business:
It is still a complete enigma.

He did, however, point out that phenomena falling within the
general description of flying saucers have actually been known to exist
and have been reported one way or another for over 100 years. The
increase in observation and in reporting and publicity on the subject
is probably attributable in the main to vastly improved methods of
observation and reporting, including not only radar but the reporting
systems used by civilian and military pilots. It is also attributable
in some measure to the publicity which is given it, which takes on certain
elements of a "fad."

There is no question, according to Samford, that "credible observers
are reporting the incredible." The radar observation may have elements
of "electronic fluke," but is sufficiently tied in with pilot observation
so that it cannot be attributed entirely to this. The Air Force views
the flying saucers as a threat only because they are not understood and
they are sufficiently frequent as a phenomena to mean that they will give
great attention to them until they understand them.

General Samford did not say anything about the possibility that they
were man-made or controlled, friend or foe, but the whole implication of
his remarks was that this possibility was [strikethrough: so remote as not to be seriously]
[handwritten: generally] considered.
[handwritten: and]

F.H.

[strikethrough: SECRET]

DECLASSIFIED NND 852931