--- PAGE 1 ---
[Blue banner top right]
DECLASSIFIED
Authority:
NND 917033

[Strikethrough: SECRET] (stamped vertically on the left)
[Strikethrough: SECRET] (stamped horizontally on the right)

[Label on envelope]
EXHIBIT #530 Op 257
Secret Serial 00196P57 R/S
S-06200 dated 4-23-49
Subject: Flying Discs

REPORT FILED M-5 AIRCRAFT - UNIDENTIFIED
JONES
2-27-50
[Strikethrough: Secret] (stamped horizontally below the typewritten text)

--- PAGE 2 ---
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]

[strikethrough: SECRET] [strikethrough: SECRET] [strikethrough: SECRET]

020249 30014
S 78-1(126)
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
P 615
[unclear: 9w? 1? 26]

--- PAGE 3 ---
. [strikethrough: RESTRICTED]
CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Incident # 101

1. Date 18 February 1948
2. Time 5:01 P.M.
3. Location Norcatur, Kansas
4. Name of observer M. R. Krehbiel account (taken from newspaper)
5. Occupation of observer Editor
6. Address of observer Norton, Kansas
7. Place of observation Norcatur, Kansas
8. Number of objects One
9. Distance of object from observer N/S
10. Time in sight N/S
11. Altitude 30 - 35 miles above earth [strikethrough: SECRET]
12. Speed N/S
13. Direction of flight N/S
14. Tactics N/S
15. Sound One big explosion - "afterwards a lot of little explosions"
16. Size N/S
17. Color Bluish-white smoke smudge [strikethrough: SECRET]
18. Shape Mushroom
19. Odor detected N/S
20. Apparent construction Meteor
21. Exhaust trails None Bluish-white smoke smudge
22. Weather conditions N/S [stamp: RESTRICTED]
23. Effect on clouds N/S
24. Sketches or photographs Photo of vapor trail left in sky by explosion
25. Manner of disappearance Disintegration
26. Remarks: Oscar Monnig, of the Texas Observers, Amateur Astronomy, 1010 Morningside Drive, Ft. Worth, offers "tangible proof that the fireball [strikethrough: was a meteorite]

--- PAGE 4 ---
RESTRICTED
of February 18 over northern Kansas was just that, inasmuch as meteorites
have been recovered from it." There were found, beginning April 24, first
several smaller fragments up to one of 4 1/2 pounds. Then a disturbed
spot in a clover field led to the digging up of a piece of some 109 pounds
embedded about two feet in the soil. The stone is what is termed as an
"achondrite", a technical name for an unusual type of stony meteorite.
It is reported to be of a type which will deteriorate rapidly.

A photograph of the trail of the meteor, made by amateur photographer
Duane W. Wray of Norton, shows the vapor trail left in the sky by the
explosion of a meteor which was seen in Oklahoma, New Mexico, Colorado,
Kansas, and Nebraska. It was made at Wray's home, nine miles north of
Norton, just four minutes after the meteor exploded. A smudge of blue-
white smoke remained in the sky for an hour February 18th. This photo-
graph is in file under Incident #101.

Further remarks are contained in supplement.

RESTRICTED
[handwritten: √ 101a]

--- PAGE 5 ---
101

EXHIBIT B

Statement taken from Leland Sammons

My name is Leland Sammons, and I live on a farm 14 miles west of Stockton
and 1 mile north, off US 24.

On February 18 at about 5 P.M., I was standing near my hog-pen about 100'
east of my house, when I heard the pheasants raising a disturbance and the
chickens all rushed to the chicken-house. I looked around toward the house
to see what was causing it and saw something hovering just above the house.
I ran toward the house, and it then lowered over the north end of the house
and settled toward the ground. I was then very near it, approximately 6'
when it stopped about level with my face, and just wobbled around for an
instant, fire belching out of it and sucking back in. The thing was about
4' long, shaped something like a funnel. There was a pipe sticking out the
back of it, and once as it wobbled around, the pipe was sticking right at
my belly. Suddenly there was a lot of sparks showered from it, and the fire
increased as if a fuse might have lighted, and it took off in a north-westerly
direction very fast, gaining altitude as it went. My wife heard it leave and
ran out where I stood, and we watched it go, leaving a trail of smoke all the
way. Suddenly there was a great cloud of smoke in the sky, not more than
40 seconds after it left my yard, and in a few seconds or more, we heard an
explosion. I then stepped off from my house to where it had been, and it
was five steps. Yes, it was hot, I could feel the heat from it. Had I not
been washing my car prior to the occurrence, wetting the ground, there would
have been a bare spot in the yard where the thing started up because there was
a great rush of fire from it when it left. It must have been quite high when
it exploded.

--- - - - --- - - - --- - - - --- - - - ---

Kenneth Hays, son of Floyd Hays, 14 miles east of Norton on US 36, at the Jct.
of K-60, south side of highway. At about 5 to 5:30 P.M., not sure of time,
was riding his horse in a pasture, when he heard something queer in the sky.
Looking up to the south-west, he saw what appeared to him to be a rocket,
just like he had seen during the war in Europe. It startled him, and he
jumped off the horse. He then remounted, watched its course, almost on
a level but losing altitude a little, and it then exploded with a big cloud
of smoke, apparently over Norton, from where he was, south of Prairie View.
He rode on toward home a ways, when suddenly the sound and jar of the explosion
reached him. Mrs. Hays was home in the house, when she heard and felt something
like a truck might have struck the house. She ran out of the house and then
first saw the huge cloud of smoke. About 40 minutes later, a part of the
smoke cloud drifted directly over their house, and went on east over
Phillipsburg.

--- - - - --- - - - --- - - - --- - - - ---

Ralph New, postmaster at Norcatur, stated that at about 4:50 P.M. he was
standing just inside the front window of the postoffice, when
he observed a blinding flash as if someone had taken a flashlight picture.
He could locate no one with a camera, but noticed several men walking to the
center of the street and looking up. He then walked out to where they were
and looking up, saw a high cloud of smoke in the sky almost directly overhead

--- PAGE 6 ---
(COPY)
                                                                 10/P
                                           323 W. Tenth St.,
                                           Pueblo, Colorado
                                           February 20, 1948

Office of the Chief of Staff
U. S. Army
Washington, D. C.

Subject:
            Explosion in the sky near Norcatur, Kans.
            4:00 p.m. (MST) February 18, 1948

Purpose:
            To call attention to some peculiarities
            in connection, whether coincidental or not

According to an AP bulletin appearing in the Pueblo CHIEFTAIN
for February 18, 1948, some object was seen moving eastward
across the sky on the late afternoon of February 18th, and
when this thing reached a position approximate to Norcatur,
Kansas, exploded, or disrupted, or disappeared. The ex-
plosion is said to have been terrific.

Directions given as to the progress of this appearance in-
dicate that it moved from west to east.

Information contained in the dispatch under a Denver dateline
indicate that while many would call this object a bolide -
e.g., exploding meteor - the astronomers of Chamberlin
Observatory (Denver) did not so assess it: it is said in
the dispatch that these officials could offer no explanation
of it.

If this is the case, the appearance is anomalous, and may lend
itself to other meteoric explanation.

A sketch-diagram of the earth and moon's orbit reveals a pe-
culiarity in connection with the appearance, which may be
significant.

If a line is stricken at right-angles across the meridional
position of the site of explosion of this meteor at hour
angle four o'clock (local time) and this line be considered
the west-to-east course of the object, then it will be seen
that if this line is continued outward into space toward the
orbit of the moon it will intersect the lunar orbit at a
place near to where the moon would be at from 80 to one hundred
hours after the explosion took place.

New moon occurred at 9 D 10 H 2 M February; First Quarter
at 17D 8H M. February - the moon moves approximately
12.5 degrees per day along its orbit.

--- PAGE 7 ---
10/8

It is held by rocketry experts (example, WILLY LEY – see
his ROCKETS, p. 192, diagram and note in connection there-
with) that it would take about 100 hours for a rocket-craft
to negotiate the distance from Earth to Moon.

Prior to its explosion over Norcatur, this object of Feb.
18th was variously reported as a "falling plane", a "jet
plane", and a "ball of fire". It is said by some to have
left a trail of smoke behind it.

It is the suggestion of this writer that the Army collect
and assimilate reports on this object, with a view to
determining where it was seen as an object trailing smoke
and where as a ball of fire.

If this thing is a rocket of some kind headed for the moon,
it might first have been seen as a streak of smoke, then
later as a ball of fire, and lastly as a tremendous ex-
plosion when it at last reached sufficient speed and eleva-
tion for take-off.

The writer has in mind the various and unexplained reports
on "flying saucers", and bases this speculation upon
long consideration of various oddments of reports whose
significance might be of space-craft from other worlds of
space.

The so-called "meteoric procession" which crossed Toronto
in February 1913, consisted of a number of groups of
illuminated bodies traveling in groups of three and moving
in "rigid formation", all pursuing a course across the
same streak of the earth's surface. If a line is projected
backward along this line of flight it will be seen that
this line "comes out" at the position of the moon at the
time. The 1913 phenomenon occurred in the mid-period of
a series of reports on dirigible aircraft of appearance
like zeppelins which were seen over England and whose
appearance terminated - or reports on the appearances
stopped - just prior to the inferior conjunction of Venus
of April 24, 1913.

The writer begs to call attention to the fact that the
times prior to and just after inferior conjunction of Venus
are prolific in reports of strange things seen in the sky.

Also that lights have been reported on the moon from time
to time, back for at least a century.

If in the future of military experiment the moon is selected
as a base for the launching of rockets (which has been
suggested by some writers), it may be well to look first

2

--- PAGE 8 ---
1012

into reports like this one on the explosion over Norcatur
and the direction of the object involved.

There is a possibility, however remote this may seem, that
the moon is either inhabited or in use by other than human
beings.

ours,

/s/ NORMAN GARRETT MARKHAM

It may do not harm to
watch the moon for
possible arrival of
this thing in the quarter
at 80 to 100 hours after
"its Departure".
NGM

3

--- PAGE 9 ---
(COPY)
FILE REF: - SIGGE-M-1
From:
To:
Subject:
Purpose:

101d
March 14, 1948

Norman G. Markham
MAIN HOTEL, Pueblo, Colo

Chief Signal Officer
U. S. Army, Washington, D.C.

Norcatur, Kans., sky explosion
of 18 February, 1948

To show a speculation regard-
ing the above phenomenon and
another one of earlier date
and to call attention to
occurrences between the two
which have an appearance of
relationship whether coinci-
dental or not.

The geographical position of the Norcatur explosion suggests possible
linkage with other occurrences happening inside latitudinal limits arbitrarily
demarkable between 43° 36' North (which is the latitude of Boise, Idaho)
and 36° 10' North (the latitude of Nashville, Tenn.), a belt about 485
miles wide.

This suggestion is gained from positions given for occurrences
happening between June 24, 1947 and February 18, 1948, as shall be
hereinafter briefly described.

----------

THE BOISE (Idaho) OBJECT—This was seen either beginning or ending at 330 pm
24 June 1947 and was visible for 20 minutes. It was in the western sky,
was of comet-like appearance, and settled gradually toward the horizon as
planetary bodies set. It was seen by Lt. Gov. Whitehead and Chief Justice
Lampert. Its nature was unknown.

The peculiarity which connects this object, for speculative purposes, with
the explosion of some unknown object over Norcatur, Kans., on 18 February
1948 is the seeming of a relationship between the positions of the moon for
the two phenomena:

In the former case the moon was at the date of phenomenon, about 7%. 63
before the position of First Quarter; on the second case it was about 8%.73
beyond the position of first quarter.

Since the Boise object was visible for 20 minutes before it sank this
argues it was about ten degrees above the horizon when first seen. Now
if a line be drawn westward and at ten degrees zenithward from the

--- PAGE 10 ---
horizon of Boise at 3:30 p.m. and another line be drawn from the position
of the moon at one hundred hours before the sighting of the Boise object,
and projected to the center of the earth, it will be seen that this ten-
degrees-altitude and the moon-earth line intersect as a place far above
a geographical position considerably to the west of Cape Blance, in the
neighborhoodof about 700 miles off the coast.

The Boise object in its appearance suggests a rocket-type of craft possibly
using reaction blasts to brake itself down for a landing on the earth.
The bright point and plumy tail of the description suggest this, as also
its apparent fixity in space.

HOLLE'S "SHIP IN FLAMES" -- Nine days after the sighting of the Boise
object a forest lookout named Earl Holle saw at or soon after 4:00 p.m.,
3rd July, 1947, something he took to be a "tanker in flames". This was
seen horizon-ward from a point in Sonoma County, California, near to Fort
Ross. A search was instituted by the Navy or Coast Guard, and nothing was
found. The soviet tanker ELBRUZ, which had been in the vicinity, was
queried and found to be all right. This was not explained.

If this apperance had been on the horizon, there is no telling how far
it may have been from the observer.

CAPE MENDOCINO BLIMP INCIDENT -- Not far from the location of Holle's
"burning ship" an accident occurred to a navy blimp, 14 July 1947, off Cape
Mendocino.

This blimp suddenly settled into the water, slipped out its crew and rose
again.

The anomaly here is that one would not expect to find drastic down-drafts
of such violence as to thus upset a lighter than air craft. Possibly a
downdraft accounted for the accident - but if the Signal Officer will look
up the incident of the British steamer Talma which, at the time of the
sighting of a luminous wheel-like phenomenon in the Gulf of Martaban,
reported a slowing of the engines from some unknown cause, it may be seen
that possibly forces are generated in some manner by certain unknown
objects at times in the ocean, which may have physical attraction for
material objects. This blimp accident occurring in waters where occurred
other phenomena shortly to be mentioned, seems to have a doubtful side
to it.

THE OAKLAND OBJECT -- Early on the morning of 13th October, 1947, a
photographer named Ben Dobus together with a taxidriver named A. J.
Goldman saw a thing "that looked like Saturn with a ring around it."
It shot at terrific speed WESTWARD across the sky of the Bay area, and was
seen shortly after midnight.

2

--- PAGE 11 ---
191g

This may have been heading in the general direction of what may have been
the goal of two later objects which roughly resemble it in description.

THE TICONDEROGA OBJECTS -- According to the tanker Ticonderoga's
second officer, two "flying discs" were seen heading SOUTHWEST when the
ship was in 43 degrees fifteen minutes north and 124 degrees 54 minutes
west, at 0620 GCT, 12th November 1947.

These may have been heading for the object seen in the Pacific off the
Golden Gate, not long afterward -- or possibly at the same time, if earlier
reports on this are consulted.

THE PHANTOM REEF -- On November 24, 1947, the Navy denied that it had
found a phantom reef or other obstruction to navigation at a point about
400 miles west of San Francisco. The Navy Survey ship MAURY, sent out
there in response to reports of ships that some huge object had been
seen in the water in that neighborhood, reported that when in the
approximate latitude and longitude of the supposed obstruction they
picked up an echo from something in the water 1600 yards from the
ship; but that when they had steamed to within 400 yards of this, the
echo vanished.

There seems a possible connectability between the various elements so
far considered.

Later on January 7, 1948, there were occurrences in the neighborhood of
Wilmington, O., Ft. Knox, Ky., Franklin, Ky., and Nashville, Tenn., all of
which must be now familiar to the archivists of the Signal Office.

Something like a "flying disc" was pursued by one Lt. Mantell and two
other pilots, Mantell being killed while in the process of attempting to
gain altitude to get close to whatever it was he was chasing.

Also, in this connection, it may not be amiss to mention the deaths of
two military officers who were said to have been bringing back material
evidence from "flying discs" one of which was said to have met with some kind
of accident over Maury Island, Puget Sound, around June, 1947.

It will be seen on inspection that the geographical locales of these
incidents fit inside the belt of latitudes hereinbefore mentioned.

THE NORCATUR EXPLOSION was described in a previous letter of this
writer, and it was shown in that letter that a line tangential to the
meridian of Norcatur, Kans., at hour-angle 2:20 p.m., would if con-
tinued outward into space to the orbit of the moon, intersect the
moon's orbit at a point where the moon would have been at about 100
hours after the time of the explosion.

According to rocketry theory, it would take a reaction-propelled
craft of the rocket type about 100 hours to reach the moon.

3

--- PAGE 12 ---
I submit there is a likelihood that on June 24, 1947, something like a
space-ship came here from the moon and upon February 18, 1948, returned
to the moon.

This is of course speculation.

But has anyone yet explained the "flying discs" in terms of all the
pretty-well proven facts in connection with them?

Has anyone yet devised a fuel powerful enough to kick a rocket from
Earth to the Moon?

There have been hundreds of reports, during the past century, on
occurrences which imply this world is visited from outside space.
Absence of contact by these postulatable visiting entities may imply a
state of culture far beyond ours, to the point where it would be inex-
pedient for their members to have to do with us en-masse.

These reports have never been seriously considered by science, which
in general ignores them.

However, according to Dr. Rocht of Chamberlin Observatory, Denver, there
is nothing in astronomy to explain the thing which exploded over Norcatur.
Dr. Nininger's idea that the thing was a meteor flatly disregards Dr. Rocht's
opinion, which may have been based on the Denver Posts' statement that a
Denver woman saw the Norcatur object twenty minutes before the explosion
occurred.

I submit that the Army needs men who are capable of recognizing the anomalies
beforementioned when they occur, evenif only to aid in speculation regarding
them.

The undersigned offers his services to that end, if the Army may wish to
avail itself of them.

/s/ N. G. MARKHAM

4

--- PAGE 13 ---
10/m

Excerpt of letter dated April 11, 1948 from Dr. Lincoln LaPaz, Director,
Institute of Meteoritics, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, New
Mexico, to the Deputy Executive Director, Committee on Geophysical
Sciences, Research and Development Board:

Thank you for the surprising documents sent me under date of March
30. As you remark, certain aspects of Markham's letters are fantastic
(for example: (1) the fireball procession of 1913, February 9, was
genuinely meteoric, although a rare type of chain fall; (2) no astronomer
could take seriously Markham's "invasion by beings from Venus or the Moon"-
theory; (3) he appeals to, and biases in his favor, such untrustworthy
evidence as newspaper stories, e.g., the absurd statement attributed to
Dr. Rocht of the Chamberlin Observatory). Nevertheless, Markham is justi-
fied in calling attention to certain incidents as unexplained, for example,
the "flying lenses" (in my opinion 99% hoax and imagination and 1% real).

As regards the Norcatur, Kansas incident, I remain convinced that,
like the Four Corners incident, it was a genuine meteorite fall, although
one of exceptional size (again like the Four Corners fall). However,
there are many curious aspects of both these falls, some of an objective
nature, like the singular fact that in spite of intensive searches (ad-
mittedly under bad terrain and weather conditions), not a trace of meteoritic
material has so far been found; some of a non-objective nature, like the
amazing testimony given by Mr. Leland Sammons, Mr. Alfred Glenn, and other
witnesses of the Norcatur incident, both to members of the State Highway
Commission of Kansas and to Institute of Meteoritics field survey parties.
(See exhibits A, B, and C enclosed.)

Some comment on such testimony as appears in A,B, and C would seem
desirable:

1. Glenn first reported the battery case as red hot. When I pointed
out that the paper on it was not charred, his account was changed to
"too hot to handle". The Institute of Meteoritics party found only two
men, not four, who saw the battery case fall. The battery case has been
examined by Dr. Victor Regener, Department of Physics, University of
New Mexico, who states that it appears to be identical with the small
batteries used in portable radios.

2. K. Hays' identification of the Norcatur object as a rocket has
the following support: On the morning of February 19, I talked to the
towerman and two assistants at the Air Base at McCook Field, Nebraska.
All three denied the Norcatur object was a fireball and described it as
a black object with an extremely bright jet of flame pouring out of the
rear. Furthermore, a 14-year old, and presumably unbiased, schoolgirl
in Oberlin, Kansas wrote me a similar description of the "fireball."

--- PAGE 14 ---
101 1/2

3. A determined effort is under way to check up on Sammons' veracity
(and sanity!) I have neither seen nor talked to Sammons, but another member
of the Institute of Meteoritics party (Dr. D. M. Gragg, an Instructor in the
Department of Mathematics) who did so believes Sammons (who is a well-to-do
farmer) to be sincere and very badly scared. Of course nearness to a big
meteorite fall would scare one as badly as an atom bomb; but how could it
produce such testimony as Sammons".

The "meteoritic" incidents from the great fall of 1945, November 29
(from which no meteorites have been recovered either!) through the sequence
of similar falls culminating in the Four Corners and Norcatur incidents,
coupled with such t ings as the Ussuri incident, convince me that ei ther
the earth is under a most unusual cosmic bombardment or many of the
fireballs are not meteorites at all. While I still cling to the meteoritic
hypothesis, it is clear that which ever alternative is the right one, the
situation cries aloud for thorough investigation.

--- PAGE 15 ---
10-g
(COPY)

EXHIBIT A
Roy W. Cox, Director of Highways
STATE HIGHWAY COMMISSION
OF KANSAS
Division 3
Norton

NOTES TAKEN AT NORCATUR, KANSAS, Night of Feb 18

Mr. Ralph New, Postmaster at Norcatur, tells us that at approximately 4:50 PM
he was standing in the north window of the post office in Norcatur looking
toward the City Hall when he was suddenly illuminated very brightly by some
terrific light.

He ran outside into the street where others were looking toward the northeast
at a very large cloud of white smoke high in the sky. He stated that in about
a minute and a half, there was a terrific explosion followed by a heavy
rumbling noise like thunder and that the smoke cloud was growing larger all
the time. Also there was a white smoke trail in the sky from the southwest
where the missile had come from.

He said that from the center of the street, the explosion and the first big
mushroom of smoke was directly overhead and at a tremendous height.

Another man in Norcatur stated that just prior to the explosion, he had heard
the motors of an airplane.

Chief Scott learned from some man in Norton that just following the explosion,
something fell at his feet on the street and he picked it up, to find that it
was a small flashlight battery resembling those used in 'fountain pen
flashlights' and that it was red hot. After a crowd of men gathered and
examined it, he was unable to find it and thinks that someone took it.

Kenneth Hays of east of Norton was about 5 miles south of Prairie View when
he heard something roaring in the sky to the west of him, far away and very
high. He says that it resembled a rocket traveling northeast toward Norton
direction, and that suddenly there was a terrific explosion followed by a
mushroom of white smoke and that there followed other explosions or something
resembling explosions. When he saw it, it was nearing the ground or horizon,
in other words, losing altitude.

Edgar Young's boy at Reager, was standing beside the Reager elevator and heard
something high over head, looked up to see a very bright flash of light and
then a loud explosion followed by a big cloud of smoke.

The airport at Norton thought about 20,000 feet, time 4:50. Checked but no
planes missing.

--- PAGE 16 ---
101 PL
but slightly east. Suddenly, about 1 and 1/2 minutes after he had seen the
flash, there was a terrific explosion and jar, shaking the ground and causing
the windows all around to rattle. Following the explosion, there were several
loud reverberating rumblings across the heavens. He stated that the explosion
must have been very high.
- - - - - - - - - -

Edgar Young, a boy living at Regar, just east of Norcatur, was outside the
elevator, when he observed the explosion, looked up and saw the huge cloud
of smoke. He stated that it was almost overhead but slightly west of him.
He said that it was a big explosion. The elevator man was out in the
elevator, when he heard the explosion. He thought that his oil-burner had
exploded in the office and ran in to see about it. Finding it O.K., he ran
outside to see what had exploded, saw the big cloud of smoke high overhead,
slightly west.

- - - - - - - - - -

Eastern Kansas newspaper carried a story about 6 days ago of one just
like this one, coming from the south to vicinity of Iola, Kansas, where it
turned west and disappeared into the sky.

- - - - - - - - - -

Check with Chief Scott of Norton about a burned flashlight battery
which fell in the street of Norton just after the explosion. It was too
hot to be picked up for several minutes. Chief Scott has it.

Note: A copy of Exhibit "C" referred to in letter from Dr. LaPaz, was
not received.

--- PAGE 17 ---
[stamp: CONFIDENTIAL]
CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Incident # 102

1. Date 18 February 1948
2. Time 1500 MST
3. Location [strikethrough: XXXXXXXX] Air Near Green River, Utah
4. Name of observer Lenord P. Marchese (B-29 Pilot, Lt. 28 Bomber Gp)
Carl W. Stucki, Lt., Co-Pilot, (see reverse side
for other witnesses)
5. Occupation of observer Pilot
6. Address of observer 77th Bomb Sq, 28th Bomb Gp (VH), Weaver AFB, S.D.
7. Place of observation 39° N - 100° W - near Green River, Utah
8. Number of objects One
9. Distance of object from observer 100 miles
10. Time in sight N/S
11. Altitude 20,000 feet
12. Speed Very high
13. Direction of flight Southeast of Limon, Colorado
14. Tactics Explosion rate
15. Sound Could not be determined due to B-29 engine noise
16. Size Huge
17. Color Multi-colored ball of fire
18. ShapoHuge multi-colored ball of fire and dense cloud of smoke
19. Odor detected N/S
20. Apparent construction N/S
21. Exhaust trails Vapor trail with ball of fire at head of trail
22. Weather conditions Clear
23. Effect on clouds N/S
24. Sketches or photographs None
25. Manner of disappearance N/S
26. Remarks: [strikethrough: XXXXXX] Over

[stamp: CONFIDENTIAL]

--- PAGE 18 ---
A huge multi-colored ball of fire trailing a dense cloud of smoke
was sighted at approx 1500 hours MST 18 Feb 48, 39° N-100° W at
approx 20,000 ' by two B-29 aircraft of the 28th Bombardment Group (VH).
It was seen some 100 miles southeast of the B-29s. Size was estimated
as huge altho impossible to determine accurately due to the distance.
It was traveling at very high speed and heading southeast of Limon,
Colorado, at approx 20,000 ft.

Witnesses: Capt Howard H. Berodt, AO-49504, 718th Bomb Sq
           28th Bomb Gp (VH). Pilot of 1st B-29

           Capt Maurice T. Ritenour, AO-48043, 718th Bomb Sq
           28 Bomb Gp (VH). Co-Pilot of 1st B-29.

           1st Lt Leonard P. Marchese, AO-748714, 77th Bomb
           Sq., 28th Bomb Gp (VH). Pilot of 2nd B-29

           1st Lt. Carl W. Stucki, AO-735916, 77th Bomb Sq,
           28th Bomb Gp (VH). Co-Pilot of 2nd B-29.

NOTE: See Incident 101 - Norcatur Kansas.

[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]

[handwritten in bottom right corner: 102a]

--- PAGE 19 ---
RESTRICTED
CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Incident # 103

1. Date 18 February 1948
2. Time 1500 MST
3. Location [illegible] Air near Green River Utah
4. Name of observers Capt. Howard H. Berodt - Capt Maurice T. Ritenour
(See Inc 102 - corroboration)
5. Occupation of observer Pilots
6. Address of observer 718th Bomb Sq, 28th Bomb Gp (VH) Weaver AFB, S.D.
7. Place of observation 39° N - 100° W - Near Green River, Utah
8. Number of objects One
9. Distance of object from observer 100 miles
10. Time in sight N/S
11. Altitude 20,000 feet
12. Speed Very high
13. Direction of flight Southeast (of Limon, Colorado)
14. Tactics Explosion rate
15. Sound Could not be determined due to B-29 engine noise
16. Size Huge (Seen 100 miles west of the B-29's)
17. Color Multi-colored ball of fire
18. Shape Hugh multi-colored ball of fire and dense cloud of smoke followed
19. Odor detected N/S
20. Apparent construction N/S
21. Exhaust trails Vapor trail with a ball of fire at the head of trail
22. Weather conditions Clear
23. Effect on clouds N/S
24. Sketches or photographs None
25. Manner of disappearance N/S
26. Remarks: [strikethrough: None] - Same as incident 102 which see

RESTRICTED

--- PAGE 20 ---
[stamp: RESTRICTED]

CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Incident # 104

1. Date 7 Mar 48
2. Time 2055 C
3. Location Smyrna, Tenn.
4. Name of observer Frank L. Fenn, Maj, USAF, CO, Smyrna AF Base
   Cpl Richard C. Pettingill & Pvt Frank C. Johnson,
5. Occupation of observer CO of Smyrna & radio and tower operators
   AACS Station
6. Address of observer Smyrna AAF, [unclear: Suxy?] Smyrna, Tenn
7. Place of observation Smyrna AAF - 6 miles from (ground)
8. Number of objects 1
9. Distance of object from observer 6 miles
10. Time in sight 45 minutes
11. Altitude About 5° above horizon
12. Speed very slow
13. Direction of flight WNW away from Smyrna
14. Tactics N/S Faded away
15. Sound None
16. Size Unknown
17. Color yellow-orange
18. Shape oval
19. Odor detected N/S
20. Apparent construction N/S - seemed to be flare
21. Exhaust trails None
22. Weather conditions CAVU - 10 miles
23. Effect on clouds N/S
24. Sketches or photographs Figs (2) showing yellow orange flame-like oval
25. Manner of disappearance faded into horizon
26. Remarks: (over)

[stamp: RESTRICTED]

--- PAGE 21 ---
RESTRICTED

A yellow-orange object which had the appearance of a flare was observed some six
miles from Smyrna AAF between the west and northwest just above the horizon
and moving directly away from Smyrna. The speed was estimated as slow since the
object remained visible some forty-five minutes. It gradually faded away
disappearing into the horizon. No exhaust trail was seen and no sound was heard.

RESTRICTED
104a

--- PAGE 22 ---
• RESTRICTED

CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Incident # 105

1. Date 8 Mar 48
2. Time 1100
3. Location Belmont, N. C.
4. Name of observer Mr. A. C. Morrison
5. Occupation of observer Supt. Meter Dept, Duke Power Co., Charlotte, N. C.
6. Address of observer Charlotte, N. C. (Duke Power Co.)
7. Place of observation Belmont, N. C. (Sighted from ground)
8. Number of objects 1
9. Distance of object from observer N/S
10. Time in sight about 10 seconds
11. Altitude N/S - could not be estimated
12. Speed Around 600 MPH
13. Direction of flight Easterly
14. Tactics None - moved in straight line at constant speed without
change in altitude or direction
15. Sound None
16. Size From a distance - that of a small coin
17. Color bright or silver - looked metallic
18. Shape round or sphere (unable to determine which)
19. Odor detected N/S
20. Apparent construction Metallic
21. Exhaust trails None
22. Weather conditions Clear with scattered white clouds
23. Effect on clouds N/S
24. Sketches or photographs None
25. Manner of disappearance behind small white cloud
26. Remarks: (over)
RESTRICTED

--- PAGE 23 ---
RESTRICTED

A round metallic-appearing object moving very rapidly at an estimated
speed of 600 MPH was observed near Belmont, N. C., at approx 1100
the morning of 8 Mar 48. The weather was clear with excellent visibility
with a few small scattered fleecy white clouds. It could not be
determined if the object were a disc or sphere. Its apparent size was
that of a small coin of a bright or silver color. It reflected the sun
maintaining a steady reflection which did not flicker. The object which
was under observation for some 10 seconds was on an easterly heading and
moved in a straight line at a constant speed without apparent change in
altitude or direction. It was impossible to determine the altitude but
it was moving above the clouds. No sound of any kind was heard nor was
any exhaust trail observed.

NOTE: Witness (Mr Morrison) is a man of excellent character and reputation,
a first-grade engineer and employee of Duke Power Co for some 30
years. He impressed the agent as being conservative and sound
and is a technical man with a very technical and responsible position.

Mr. Morrison was careful in his statements. He does not claim
he saw the "flying disc", merely [unclear: akim] claiming that they saw
an object which they could not identify with any natural phenomenon
or known type of aircraft. It resembled "a round metallic
appearing object moving very rapidly."

Witnesses: Mr. Hendrix, assistant Superintendent, Meter Dept
Duke Power Co., Charlotte, N. C.
Mr. G. W. Jordan, Gastonia Electric Co.,
Gastonia, N. C.

105-a

--- PAGE 24 ---
●●CONFIDENTIAL
CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Incident # 106

1. Date 5 March 1948
2. Time 1610 - 1655
3. Location Bakersfield, California
4. Name of observer George L. Buchner
5. Occupation of observer N/S
6. Address of observer Bakersfield, California
7. Place of observation From ground, southwest toward Buena Vista Lake,Calif.
8. Number of objects Two
9. Distance of object from observer 10 - 12 miles
10. Time in sight N/S
11. Altitude N/S
12. Speed N/S
13. Direction of flight Earthward
14. Tactics N/S
15. Sound N/S
16. Size N/S
17. Color Seemingly on fire, black and red smoke trailing behind
18. Shape Similar to falling aircraft
19. Odor detected N/S
20. Apparent construction N/S
21. Exhaust trails Brownish-white smoke and debris trailing
22. Weather conditions N/S
23. Effect on clouds N/S
24. Sketches or photographs None
25. Manner of disappearance Behind a water tower, which was an obstruction
   to the view
26. Remarks: Comments of G. L. Buckner and other witnesses to this
   sighting contained in attached supplement.

22

--- PAGE 25 ---
[handwritten: 106?]
CONFIDENTIAL

HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, A-2
Intelligence
Hamilton Field, California

4AFDA-3/1208-I

SUBJECT: Investigation of Flying Disc. Mar 11, 1948

TO: Chief of Staff
United States Air Forces
Washington, D. C.
ATTN: DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE
Air Intelligence Requirements Branch

1. Incident reported on 9 March 1948, this headquarters, per telephone
call from Sgt A. M. Larsen, Sheriff's office, Bakersfield, California.
[handwritten: 106]
a. Observation by Mr. (George L) Les Buchner, Bakersfield, California,
of two objects falling to earth from unknown source on 5 March 1948 between
1610 and 1655 hours. Description of objects similar to falling aircraft
with smoke and debris trailing. Observation made at Bakersfield with objects
sighted southwest toward Buena Vista Lake, California.
[handwritten: 107]
b. Observation by Mr. Denio, employee of the Pacific General Electric
Company, Bakersfield, California, of two objects which fell to earth from
unknown source north of Bakersfield, California, 8 March 1948. One object
seemed to be on fire with red and black smoke trailing behind.

2. Informant Larsen stated that searching parties, aircraft and rescue
units have made numerous attempts to locate these reported objects without
success.

3. Investigation of incident has been initiated by this headquarters.
Report will follow.

/s/ Donald L. Springer
DONALD L. SPRINGER
Lt. Colonel, USAF
AC of S, A-2

Information to:
ADC, Mitchel Fld, N.Y.
FBI, San Francisco
G-2, Sixth Army
DIO, San Francisco (12th Nav.Dist)

CONFIDENTIAL
23

--- PAGE 26 ---
1068
CONFIDENTIAL!
HEADQUARTERS FOURTH AIR FORCE
Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff
Intelligence
Hamilton Field, California

4AFDA-3/1208-I
SUBJECT: Investigation of Flying Discs
SUMMARY OF INFORMATION:

Information from the Sheriff's Office, Bakersfield, California, revealed
that numerous calls from residents in Bakersfield concerning peculiar objects
in the sky over Bakersfield, predicated an investigation by their office and
contact with A-2 Headquarters Fourth Air Force.

On 13th March 1948, two informants, Mr. George L. Buchner, and Mr.
H. B. Nix, stated that they observed a flying object which appeared to be
consumed in fire, and left a brownish-white plume of smoke, which suddenly
stopped and disappeared. Seconds later, what appeared to be a parachute,
was seen to be drifting to the east.

The object, as described, appeared to be a burning fabric airplane,
consumed in smoke. Observations were made in Bakersfield of object to
the south and southwest, approximately ten to twelve miles distance, around
1600 hours on 5 March 1948.

106
108
On 13th March 1948, informant, Mr. H. B. Nix, stated that he observed
an object at 0830, 8 March 1948, due north of Bakersfield, approximately five
miles distance. The object was a large, orange-red ball of fire, somewhat
larger than a small airplane, appeared to remain static for approximately
thirty seconds, then split and continued to burn; each visible as a burning
half. A parachute, with a black object hanging was then observed to fall,
drift to the east and disappeared into the hills east of Bakersfield.

On 13th March 1948, two informants, Mrs. Callie R. Mason, secretary,
Haberfelde Building, Bakersfield, California, and Dr. J. E. Johnson, dentist
Haberfelde Building, Bakersfield, California, stated that they were in
Room 518, Haberfelde Building, on the morning of 9 March 1948. Mrs. Mason
was a patient of Dr. Johnson. Both informants stated that they observed a
flaming object which appeared at first to be a very small airplane. Orange
red flames seemed to envelope the object with considerable black smoke
trailing in a zigzag manner for approximately 4,000 to 5,000 feet. The
object was observed at 1,000 feet, approximately due north of Bakersfield,
seven to ten miles distant at approximately 0830 hours.

10
Informants further stated that the object disappeared behind a water
tower, which was an obstruction to their view, and was near the ground.
Both informants watched for an explosion, thinking that it would explode
upon reaching the ground, but nothing unusual was noted.

CONFIDENTIAL
27

--- PAGE 27 ---
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
106

A-2 COMMENT:
Although there is no evidnece to substantiate the following, it is
the opinion of this headquarters that this activity could be attributed
to marker flares. Any further developments, or evidence obtained, will be
forwarded this headquarters from the Sheriff's Office, Bakersfield, California.

EVALUATION
Of Source
C
Of Information
3

[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
25

--- PAGE 28 ---
• RESTRICTED •
CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Incident # 107

1. Date 8 March 1948
2. Time N/S
3. Location Bakersfield, California
4. Name of observer Mr. Denio
5. Occupation of observer Pacific General Electric Company employee
6. Address of observer N/S
7. Place of observation Sighted from ground
8. Number of objects Two
9. Distance of object from observer N/S
10. Time in sight N/S
11. Altitude N/S
12. Speed N/S
13. Direction of flight Earthward
14. Tactics N/S
15. Sound N/S
16. Size N/S
17. Color One object seemingly afire, red and black smoke trailing
18. Shape N/S
19. Odor detected N/S
20. Apparent construction N/S
21. Exhaust trails N/S
22. Weather conditions N/S
23. Effect on clouds N/S
24. Sketches or photographs None
25. Manner of disappearance [strikethrough: N/S] Fell to earth
26. Remarks: See supplement to Incident #106.

2C

--- PAGE 29 ---
•RESTRICTED
CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS
Incident # 108

1. Date 8 March 1948
2. Time 0830
3. Location Bakersfield, California
4. Name of observer H. B. Nix
5. Occupation of observer N/S
6. Address of observer N/S
7. Place of observation Sighted from ground
8. Number of objects One
9. Distance of object from observer 5 miles
10. Time in sight Approx. 30 seconds before splitting and burning
11. Altitude N/S
12. Speed Static for approx 30 seconds, and then drifting
13. Direction of flight eastward
14. Tactics N/S
15. Sound N/S
16. Size Larger than a small airplane
17. Color Orange-red ball of fire
18. Shape Ball
19. Odor detected N/S
20. Apparent construction N/S
21. Exhaust trails N/S
22. Weather conditions N/S
23. Effect on clouds N/S
24. Sketches or photographs None
25. Manner of disappearance Drifted to the east into the hills east of
   Bakersfield
26. Remarks: See supplement to Incident #106
RESTRICTED
27

--- PAGE 30 ---
[stamp: RESTRICTED]
CHECK-LIST - UNIDENTIFIED FLYING OBJECTS

Incident # 109

1. Date 9 March 1948
2. Time 0830
3. Location Bakersfield, California
4. Name of observers J.E. Johnson and Mrs. Callie R. Mason
5. Occupation of observer J.E. Johnson, Dentist, Mrs. Mason, Secretary
6. Address of observer N/S
7. Place of observation 5th Floor of business building
8. Number of objects One
9. Distance of object from observer 7 - 10 miles
10. Time in sight N/S
11. Altitude 1000 feet
12. Speed N/S
13. Direction of flight Due north of Bakersfield
14. Tactics Zig-zaging
15. Sound N/S
16. Size Appearance of a very small airplane
17. Color Orange-red flame
18. Shape Appearance of a very small airplane
19. Odor detected N/S
20. Apparent construction N/S
21. Exhaust trails Considerable black smoke trailing for 4000 to 5000 feet
22. Weather conditions N/S
23. Effect on clouds N/S
24. Sketches or photographs None
25. Manner of disappearance N/S
26. Remarks: See supplement to Incident #106
[stamp: RESTRICTED]
28