--- PAGE 1 ---
4-895 (REV 11-20-73)
0062 83894
Class / Case #
Sub
Vol.
Serial #
8/11/1274184
RRP003J XGQ
8
344

62-HQ-83894
SERIALS 344-384
SECTION 8
384

[strikethrough: ent of Justice]
[strikethrough: ED FROM OR ADDED TO THIS FIL]
[stamp: FOR PA]
[unclear: 121]
[strikethrough: BUREAU]
[strikethrough: NOT]
[strikethrough: STROY]
FOIPA # 993087.
[stamp: INVESTIGATION]
[stamp: DO NOT]
[stamp: DESTROY]
[stamp: COPIED FOR FOIPA NOV 3 1978 BY R62]
[stamp: COPIED FOR FOIPA MAR 1 1977 BY R310]
[stamp: COPIED FOR FOIPA MAY 4 1977 BY R310]
[stamp: COPIED FOR FOIPA MAY 14 1977 BY R348]

USE CARE IN HANDLING THIS FILE
Du 358,346
[stamp: COPIED FOR FOIPA JAN 18 1979 BY F420]
[strikethrough: Transfer-Call 3421]

Declassification authority derived from FBI Automatic Declassification Guide, issued May 24, 2007.

--- PAGE 2 ---
281

Sq, 346, 353, 362 & 384
[stamp: COPIED FOR]
[stamp: FOIPA]
[stamp: APR 14 1978 BY R330]

ALS REQUESTERS FULL NAME COMPUTER NUMBER DATE BY
349; 350 Parks, Brian 263,552 3/25/80 95
344 Richard Toronto 267, 191 5/29/80 F45
380 Brian Parks 263,553 3/23/80 RED

--- PAGE 3 ---
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Director, FBI (62-83894)
DATE: 7/22/54
[handwritten] mun
FROM : SAC, Cincinnati (65-1994)

SUBJECT: [handwritten circle] TRUMAN BETHURUM;
FLYING DISCS
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING
(ESPIONAGE)

[handwritten] hh
[handwritten] Encl
[handwritten] Pl-22705

Remleyt 6/8/54 and Bulet 6/22/54.

Attached are five copies of a memorandum
containing information set out in my letter of June 8,
1954 with additional information furnished by [strikethrough: THOMAS]
[handwritten red line] EICKHOFF on July 2, 1954.

On July 2, 1954, although EICKHOFF had been
so advised at the time of the original interview with
him on June 7, 1954, he was again advised in accordance
with instructions in reBulet.

RCD:SAS

REGISTERED MAIL

ENCLOSURES (5)

[handwritten wavy line]

RECORDED - 79
[handwritten] 62-83894-344
INDEXED - 79

[stamped] EX-127
[stamped] 2 JUL 26 1954

[handwritten box]
AGENCY / [unclear: cc encl] OSI (0-14)
REG. RECD [unclear: I Colonel] RAB (06a)
DATE FORW. 8/3/54
HOW FORW. RIS
BY CMM/ehd.

[handwritten signature, unclear]
[handwritten signature] Mothbery

[stamped] 61 AUG 4 1954
[handwritten] d ysy 1954
COPIES DESTROYED
[stamped] 270 NOV 19 1964

--- PAGE 4 ---
Office Memorandum

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
MEMORANDUM

TO : Director, FBI (83-338)
FROM : SAC, Cincinnati (83-1090)

SUBJECT: NORMAN H. THURON
ROBERT TYTUS
INFORMATION CONCERNING - MILDRED DAVIS
(ESPIONAGE)

DATE:
OVER
WAS
Revises 8/18/8 and [unclear]

Attached are five copies of a memorandum
to the Director containing information set
out in a letter of [unclear] from MONROE on
July 2, 1951.

MONROE has again been advised at the time
of the original interview in Cincinnati on July 7,
1951, that he was to furnish any additional
information received by him with instructions
to [unclear] in review.

BAE:cb
AIR MAIL
(2) ENCLOSURES

[handwritten: Rec'd 12:20 PM
9/2]
[stamp: AUG 2 9 59 AM '51
U. S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
FBI
REC'D ESPIONAGE]
[stamp: JUL 30 4 08 PM '51
U. S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
FBI
REC'D ESPIONAGE]

--- PAGE 5 ---
TRUMAN BETHURUM
FLYING DISCS

On June 7, 1954, Mr. Thomas Eickhoff, 3721
Tappan Avenue, Cincinnati 23, Ohio, Operator of Tom's
Beauty Salon, Neave Building, Fourth and Race Streets,
Cincinnati, Ohio, advised that although he belongs to
no organization interested in flying saucers or discs,
he has been interested in this subject.

He said on June 3, 1954 an ad appeared in
"The Cincinnati Enquirer", a newspaper of general circu-
lation in Cincinnati, Ohio, to the effect that on June
11, 1954 a program would be presented at the Taft
Auditorium in Cincinnati, Ohio on "the real flying
saucer story." Mr. Eickhoff advised that this advertise-
ment disclosed no sponsor for this program and it was
only noted on the ad that tickets for the program sold
for $2.00 per person and would be on sale at the Central
Ticket Office in Cincinnati.

Mr. Eickhoff continued that because of his
interest in the subject of flying saucers, he desired
to know the sponsor of the program and found out from
the Central Ticket Office that the ad had been placed
by Henry [strikethrough: Maday] Maday, 364 West Lewiston Avenue, Ferndale 20,
Michigan. He said he telephonically contacted Maday
on June 3, 1954 and found that Maday was only the agent
having rented the Taft Auditorium and that he was
acting on behalf of Truman Bethurum and George Hunt
Williamson.

He continued that on June 4, 1954 Maday
called him back and told him there had been a dis-
agreement between Maday, Bethurum and Williamson over
Maday's arrangement for the sale of tickets of the
program and the renting of the auditorium. Eickhoff
advised that Maday at no time said anything to discredit
either Bethurum or Williamson and indicated that their
disagreement concerned only Maday's placing the ad
in "The Cincinnati Enquirer" prior to having tickets
for the program available in Cincinnati.

62-83894-344

ENCLOSURE
--
COPIES DESTROYED
270 NOV 19 1964

--- PAGE 6 ---
Mr. Eickhoff further related that about ten
minutes after he had talked to Maday on Friday, June 4,
1954, he received a call from George Hunt Williamson and
[marginalia: ohio] a Mr. [strikethrough: Manspeaker], who confirmed to him that Maday was no
longer associated with them, and asked that Eickhoff meet
with them at a luncheon at the Terrace Plaza Hotel,
Cincinnati, Ohio on June 7, 1954. [marginalia: Ind.]

Mr. Eickhoff, in explanation of his interest
in this matter, advised that he had read such books as
"Flying Saucers From Outer Space," written by Donald E.
Kehoe, retired major, U. S. Marine Corps, which book was
published by Harper's Publishers, and a book entitled
"Flying Saucers Have Landed," by George Adamski, which
book is published by Werner-Lowery Company in England,
and is distributed by the British Book Center in New York
City. He said that he has also heard broadcasts by
persons he considers reputable news commentators, such as
Walter Winchell, Fulton Lewis, Jr., and Frank Edwards,
to the effect that reliable persons have reported observing
flying discs or saucers. He said contrary to these reports,
the U. S. Air Force has denied the existence of the flying
saucer and he felt that persons such as Truman Bethurum
and George Hunt Williamson, in presenting a program such
as that contemplated, were either truthful or they were
frauds. He stated that if they had a true story to tell,
then he felt it was of such nature that it should be given
as wide a distribution as possible, so that the people
might learn the true facts regarding flying discs. He
said, however, if their story was not true, then the hold-
ing of such a meeting as was contemplated would be a fraud
on the general public. He estimated that such a meeting
in Cincinnati might draw two thousand people, which, at
$2.00 apiece, would result in a $4,000.00 take for the
promoters.

To identify Truman Bethurum, Mr. Eickhoff had
with him two copies of the magazine "Valor," which he stated
he got from Bethurum, this magazine being self-identified
as the "Golden Times Weekly," published by Soul Craft
Chapels, Post Office Box 192, Noblesville, Indiana. The
two issues which Mr. Eickhoff had with him were numbers 15
and 16 of volume 6 of the publication, the number 15 being

- 2 -

--- PAGE 7 ---
dated February 6, 1954 and number 16 being dated
February 13, 1954. The number 15 issue contained an
article concerning Truman Bethurum, in which he is
identified as a truck driver from Redondo Beach, Calif-
ornia, and it refers to an article dated December 31,
1953, which appeared in the "Daily Breeze," a newspaper
at Redondo Beach, California, which allegedly contained
a description of an encounter which Truman Bethurum had
with a crew of assumed space explorers under the super-
vision of a ravishing woman commandant in the Nevada
desert. The article also reflects that Truman Bethurum
allegedly was aboard flying saucers on eleven occasions.
At the bottom of the first page of issue number 15 there
appeared in what Mr. Eickhoff stated was the handwriting
of Truman Bethurum the statement "This is a true story,
a factual experience -- Truman Bethurum."

The above mentioned article in "Valor" also
reflected that Truman Bethurum is 55 years of age and that
his residence address is 519 North Gertruda Avenue,
Redondo Beach, California.

Mr. Eickhoff reiterated that he felt Bethurum's
story, if true, should be given wide publicity, but that
if the story was false, then he should be prosecuted for
fraud. He stated that he first took his information to
the Air Force in the person of Lieutenant Colonel John
O'Mara of Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, whom
Eickhoff visited personally at O'Mara's home in Fairborn,
Ohio, on Sunday, June 6, 1954. Eickhoff indicated that
he asked Colonel O'Mara if there were such things as
flying saucers and if Bethurum's story could be true,
and he said O'Mara denied that there was such a thing as
a flying saucer and indicated to him that Donald E. Kehoe,
the author of "Flying Saucers in Outer Space" was a fraud
and that information is available in Washington that
Kehoe is a fraud. He said he was advised, however, by
Colonel O'Mara that the Air Force could take no action
with respect to Bethurum or Williamson.

Eickhoff continued that it was his intention to
aid in the promotion of a meeting for Bethurum in Cincinnati.
He advised that the original meeting schedule for June 11

- 3 -

--- PAGE 8 ---
had been cancelled, and that he felt this meeting had
such important information for the people as a whole
that he was going to make every effort to make the
meeting one of national significance. He said he in-
tended to invite to the meeting all nationally prominent
news commentators. He intended to try to get radio time
to advertise the meeting but he did not wish to partici-
pate in this matter in any way if it would violate
security regulations in any manner, or if Bethurum and
his associates were in any way fraudulent. He stated
that he so informed Bethurum, Williamson and Mr.
Manspeaker at the luncheon meeting which was held at
the Terrace Plaza Hotel on June 7, 1954. They informed
him that they were not afraid of an investigation; that
Bethurum's story was factual, and that they had no objec-
tion to Eickhoff's advising Government authorities
regarding it.

Mr. Eickhoff stated that his report to this
office was part of his plan to inform all the Federal
agencies he thought should know about the activities of
Bethurum. He advised that in line with his contemplated
plans that on the evening of June 7, 1954 there was to
be another meeting at the home of L. H. Springfield,
7017 Britton Avenue, Cincinnati 27, Ohio, at which
meeting there would be Mr. Springfield, Williamson, [marginalia: Ohio]
Manspeaker, Bethurum, Ralph [strikethrough: X]immermann and Mr. Eickhoff.
He said at this meeting they would plan a method of
operation and make arrangements for this meeting of
national significance. He said he intended to set the
date of the meeting far enough in advance so that if
any Governmental agency determined that there was fraud
involved that agency would have sufficient time to act
prior to the holding of the meeting. He advised he
intended to keep a detailed record of all actions taken
by this group, and that he would voluntarily furnish
such information to the F.B.I.

Eickhoff advised that he had not known and
had not met either Bethurum, Williamson or Manspeaker
prior to the events described above. He said that George
Hunt Williamson identified himself as an archeologist
and a writer for the magazine "Valor," who resides in
Noblesville, Indiana.

- 4 -

--- PAGE 9 ---
He said that Manspeaker, whose first name
he did not know, is also connected with "Valor" magazine
in some way.

He was asked as to what interest "Valor"
magazine has in Bethurum, and whether Bethurum was
sponsored by any other organization. He advised that
he did not know the interest of "Valor" magazine in
Bethurum, and so far as he knew, Bethurum was acting
on his own and had no organizational affiliations or
sponsorship. He was asked as to what disposition would
be made of receipts from a large meeting and he advised
that he did not know what disposition would be made of
the money. He said he understood that Bethurum had been
on tour for some time and that the meeting scheduled
for Cincinnati originally on June 11, 1954 was to be
the beginning of a new series of meetings.

William Dudley [strikethrough: P]elley, Noblesville, Indiana
reportedly operates the Soul Craft Press at Noblesville
and among other pamphlets, published the weekly journal
entitled "Valor", which Mr. Pelley describes as a "journal
of the applied spirituality." This publication is said
to deal mainly with practical mysticism, the spiritual
movement called Soulcraft and the relationshop between
earth man and the individuals arriving on this planet
from flying saucers. Mr. Pelley is said to claim that
these individuals arriving in flying saucers are of
greater intelligence and learning than the earth people
and are here to give the earth people intellectual
guidance and spiritual endowment and guidance.

On July 2, 1954, Thomas Eickhoff advised that
no progress had been made with respect to holding a
meeting for Truman Bethurum in Cincinnati, Ohio which
would be of national significance. He said that Bethurum
had returned to California but that there was a possib-
ility that he would again come to Cincinnati, Ohio in
the fall of 1954. At the same time Mr. Eickhoff advised
that he had communicated with Donald E.[strikethrough: K]ehoe, author [marginalia: D.C.]
of the book "Flying Saucers From Outer Space" and had
advised him that he had been informed by Lieutenant
Colonel John O'Mara, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base,
Ohio that he was a fraud and that information is avail-

- 5 -

--- PAGE 10 ---
able in Washington that Kehoe is a fraud. He said that
he, Eickhoff, had been requested by Kehoe to furnish
him this information in writing and that he, Eickhoff,
had obliged Kehoe in this respect. He said he understood
that Kehoe was going to Washington with his attorneys
to take up Colonel O'Mara's statements with the Air Force.

- 6 -

--- PAGE 11 ---
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
-Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Director, FBI

FROM : SAC, Cincinnati (62-0)
[handwritten:] FROM
SUBJECT: FLYING SAUCER REPORT
INFORMATION CONCERNING
[handwritten:] 62-8389

Colonel J. M. SMITH, Deputy Director of Civilian
Defense for Greater Cincinnati and Hamilton County, Ohio,
called this office on 7/23/54 to report that he had re-
ceived a report of a flying saucer from Mr. CARL R. [strikethrough: KEYSER] KEYSER,
Route 1, Milford, Ohio. Mr. KEYSER said that he could be
reached at his residence which is two miles east of Milford,
Ohio, on U. S. Highway 28.

KEYSER reported to Colonel SMITH that both he and his
wife, at approximately 2:40 p.m. on 7/23/54, had observed a
silver circular or spherical shape in the sky which was
located to the southeast of their residence, approximately
forty-five degrees above the horizon.

Colonel SMITH was advised that the report made by him
was being referred to the appropriate officials of the
United States Air Force.

I have advised the local office of the Office of
Special Investigations at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base
of the above.

RDH:BL

[handwritten:] pin
DATE: 8/2/54

RECORDED 154
INDEXED 154
EX-130
[handwritten:] 62-83891 - 345
[stamp:] 24 AUG 5 1954
[handwritten:] C [unclear: allTED?] [unclear: SP?]
[stamp:] 6 1 AUG 11 1954
[handwritten:] YL

[handwritten in top left margin:] My

--- PAGE 12 ---
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
FROM : SAC, WFO (62-0)
DATE: 8/2/54
SUBJECT: Mrs. FRANCES SWAN
        [handwritten: FLYING SAUCERS]
        MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

        This interview is predicated upon a telephone call received by
        SAC L. L. LAUGHLIN on 7/29/54 from JOHN HUTSON, Security Officer, Bureau of
        Aeronautics, U. S. Navy Department. [handwritten: DC, ME]

        On the same date JOHN HUTSON was interviewed in Room 2912, Main
        Navy Building. Also present during the interview was Commander L. T.
        McQUISTON, USN. HUTSON and McQUISTON furnished the following information:

        They advised that the Office of Naval Intelligence had forwarded
        a file to the Bureau of Aeronautics with enclosures which had been received
        from retired Admiral HERBERT B. KNOWLES of South Berwick, Maine. Accord-
        ing to HUTSON and McQUISTON, KNOWLES resided near Mrs. [strikethrough: FRANCES SWAN] [handwritten: MRS. G. W. SWAN] who [handwritten: ME]
        had been receiving messages through thought transmission. SWAN approached
        KNOWLES and advised him that "flying saucers" were here to help mankind."
        Information received by HUTSON indicated that KNOWLES became interested
        in the messages received by Mrs. SWAN and felt that the matter should be
        investigated by the Government.

        HUTSON advised that KNOWLES wrote to Admiral ESPEY, Director
        of Naval Intelligence, on 6/1/54 enclosing some of the messages received
        by Mrs. SWAN. Receiving no reply to his original communication, KNOWLES
        again wrote ONI on 6/7/54. HUTSON advised that the first letter that
        KNOWLES wrote to ONI contained information that Mrs. SWAN was receiving
        messages through thought control from "outer space" and wrote them down
        as she received them. The letter, according to HUTSON, stated that Mrs.
        SWAN would write without any effort on her part and would write continuously
        for four or five hours at a time without getting tired. He stated that ONI
        had in their possession the transmissions or messages that had been received
        by Mrs. SWAN.

        HUTSON stated that ONI had advised that in the absence of any
        definite evidence of conversations, they would do nothing in the matter.
        He also stated that the Bureau of Aeronautics took no official action in
        [handwritten: delete]
CAG:jfs                     [handwritten: RECORDED - 150]
2 - Boston                  [handwritten: INDEXED - 150]
                            [handwritten: EX. - 109]
[handwritten: 8/2/54]        [handwritten: 62-83894-]
[handwritten: Substance furnished to]
[handwritten: Cdr. David Sharer] [handwritten: 8-10]
                            [handwritten: c.c. ONI 6-2]
                            [handwritten: 12 AUG 3 1954]
                            [handwritten: 8-8-54]
                            [handwritten: RAB]
[handwritten: EHM]                             [handwritten: EXP]
                                            [handwritten: 346]
                                            [handwritten: B- [illegible] [illegible]]
                                            [handwritten: Eyn [illegible]]

--- PAGE 13 ---
Office Memorandum
• UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
TO : DIRECTOR, FBI
FROM : SAC (0-35) OMAHA
DATE : 8/1/51
SUBJECT: JOHN MASON
MISCELLANEOUS-INFORMATION-COMMUNICATION

This interview is predicated upon a telephone call received by the undersigned on 7/25/51 from JOHN MASON, Security Officer of the Naval Intelligence Department.

JOHN MASON was interviewed in room 578, Post Office Building, Omaha, Nebraska, on the same date. MASON was also present during an interview of WILLIAM D. EVANS, also a Naval Intelligence Department employee. MASON furnished the following information:

Naval Intelligence had forwarded a copy of a memorandum which had been received from OCM, to this office, concerning the interview of WILLIAM D. EVANS. At that time, a reference was made to JOHN MASON, as being an individual who had approached the Naval Intelligence Department on a matter involving "sources" in the Communist Party, and who had become interested in OCM. It was felt that the matter should be called to the attention of the FBI for such action as it deemed necessary.

MASON advised that on 7/24/51, Admiral H. C. CONNOLLY, Director of Naval Intelligence, had received a message, some of the content of which read, "Advise JOHN MASON that the first letter of his name has been received by OCM and he has been advised that he would be given further consideration regarding future contacts from 'sources' in the Communist Party."

MASON also stated that OCM had advised that Naval Intelligence was not receiving any cooperation from the FBI. MASON advised that OCM further stated that OCM had been receiving messages through a "cut-out" from 'sources' in the Communist Party. The latter, according to MASON, had advised that OCM had given them an earlier message from JOHN MASON which he had sent through the Naval Intelligence Department.

MASON stated that OCM had advised that in the absence of any cooperation from the FBI, OCM would have nothing to do with the Bureau of Investigation regarding the matter in question.

MASON further stated that OCM had received one of the transmissions of the messages from 'sources' in the Communist Party at five A.M. on the same date. He had had their possession of this transmission for about two and one-half hours.

[Red stamp, center bottom of page]:
AUG 3 9 54 AM '51
[Black stamp, left bottom of page]:
U. S. DEPT OF JUSTICE
F.B.I.
REC'D ESPIONAGE
AUG 3 2 54 PM '51
[Black stamp, right margin, oriented vertically]:
RECEIVED
Aug 3 10 06 AM '51
FBI RECORDED 120
INTERNAL SECURITY SECTION
CVQ: [illegible]

--- PAGE 14 ---
WFO 62-0

[handwritten marginalia: delete] in the matter. HUTSON was questioned concerning the position that the Bureau
of Aeronautics had taken and he remarked that he did not believe that this
was pertinent. After further questioning, he subsequently stated that the
Bureau of Aeronautics was of the belief that this was a matter for ONI.

HUTSON stated that he "unofficially" became interested in the
matter and at the invitation of Admiral KNOWLES, he went to South Berwick,
Maine, where he spent 7/24,25,26/54 in the residence of Admiral KNOWLES.
[handwritten marginalia: delete] HUTSON stated that he informed Admiral SAUCEK, his superior in the Bureau
of Aeronautics, that he was going to visit Admiral KNOWLES.

HUTSON stated that inasmuch as KNOWLES had received no response
from the Government concerning this matter, he began reading books on
flying saucers. HUTSON advised that during the time that he was a house
guest of Admiral KNOWLES, there was also present WILBER B. SMITH, a Physicist
of the Canadian Government who was also interested in flying saucers.
HUTSON stated that SMITH was at KNOWLES' residence with his family and was
there in an unofficial capacity.
[handwritten marginalia: CANADA]
[handwritten marginalia: NS]

[handwritten marginalia: co]
[handwritten marginalia: 28/2] HUTSON advised that during his stay, he and SMITH had various
interviews with Mrs. SWAN and had had contact with the "outer
space." HUTSON stated that they sat in a group and he observed Mrs. SWAN
writing messages that she was receiving from someone in "outer space."
According to HUTSON, SWAN informed him that the people from "outer space"
could use her eyes and ears to see and hear. According to SWAN, this is
accomplished by the use of a mechanical device and all conversations are
recorded by the people in "outer space." HUTSON indicated as an example
as to how messages were relayed, he stated that he asked Mrs. SWAN a
question which she was to relay to the people in "outer space" and before
she had time to relay the question, she began writing the answer down to
his question on paper.

HUTSON stated that SWAN informed him that whenever she was to
have contact with the people in "outer space," she would get a buzzing
sound in her left ear to indicate that they were "on the line." HUTSON
stated that Mrs. SWAN complained to the people in "outer space" that
this buzzing sound gets very annoying and painful to her ear. She also
stated that the messages had been coming since May 27, 1954, and would come
at all times of the night and consequently she was losing a great deal of
sleep. According to HUTSON, Mrs. SWAN arranged a schedule with the people
in "outer space" so that the messages would not interfere with her sleep.
HUTSON advised that a schedule was arranged between SWAN and the people
in "outer space" that she would receive messages on the following schedule:
8:00 in the morning, 12 noon, 6:00 in the evening, every day of the week.

- 2 -

--- PAGE 15 ---
WFO 62-0
[strikethrough: SWAN] ME
HUTSON stated that Mrs. SWAN's husband, GUY [strikethrough: SWAN], and their
daughter, DAWLYN, had also heard the buzzing sound in their ears, but have
not been able to receive transmissions or messages. HUTSON stated that the
transmissions related to flying saucers, location and why they were here,
life on other planets, and life in the hereafter, and prophesies in the Bible.
HUTSON advised that Mrs. SWAN could contact people in "outer space" by mental
thought control.

According to HUTSON, Mrs. SWAN stated that there were two space
ships from which she had been receiving messages. They were described as
150 miles wide, 200 miles in length, and 100 miles in depth. HUTSON stated
that these ships are designated as M-4 and L-11 and they also contain mother
ships which measure approximately 150 to 200 feet in length. HUTSON related
that SWAN had informed him that there were approximately 5,000 of these
mother ships. He stated that "[strikethrough: AFFA]" [handwritten: NO] is the Manager or the Commander of the
ship M-4 which is from the planet Uranus and "[strikethrough: PONNAR]" [handwritten: is the Manager or the]
Commander of the ship L-11 which is from the planet Hatann. HUTSON related
that Mrs. SWAN stated that these contacts with "AFFA" and "PONNAR" were for
the purpose of protecting our own earth from destruction caused by the
explosion of the atom bomb, hyrdrogen bomb, and wars of various kinds which
they, "AFFA" and "PONNAR," say disrupt the magnetic field of force which
surrounds the earth. HUTSON stated that Mrs. SWAN also related that contact
was made for the purpose of protecting the whole universe because if the
"fault lines" break or go to pieces, it would effect the entire universe.
According to Mrs. SWAN, HUTSON stated, "AFFA" and "PONNAR" are presently
working in the area of the Pacific Ocean repairing "fault lines" which are
in danger of breaking.

HUTSON stated that both he and SMITH were looking for proof and
they wanted to know whether they could contact the man from "outer space."
According to HUTSON, SWAN advised that he and SMITH could make contact in
"outer space" on any frequency provided they informed her first of the
frequency that they were to use so that she could advise the people in
"outer space." HUTSON stated that in connection with his contacting
"outer space," he could make no commitment as he did not know how far
the Navy would go. He advised, however, that SMITH stated that he would
try to make contact with "outer space" on Sunday, August 1, 1954, and was
going to use a high frequency. HUTSON stated that to make sure that con-
tact was made, Mrs. SWAN advised that the ship from "outer space" would
come within 100 miles of Ottawa, Canada, so that SMITH would have no
difficulty in making his contact.

HUTSON stated that Admiral KNOWLES wanted to know if physical
contact could be had with the people in "outer space." SWAN advised HUTSON
and KNOWLES that the people in "outer space" wanted to know if they could
provide them protection and that if physical contact were to be made, they
would appear in a force which would consist of 5,000 "bells" or "flying saucers."

- 3 -

--- PAGE 16 ---
WFO 62-0

According to Mrs. SWAN, these "bells" or "flying saucers" would appear
over many nations of the world during the latter part of August 1954, and
would come close enough to the earth so that they could be seen by man
and that they in turn would be able to see people on the street.

                       HUTSON stated that Admiral KNOWLES wrote a letter to MARGARET
CHASE SMITH, Senator from Maine, concerning this information, who forwarded
[marginalia: delete] the information to the Secretary of Defense and copies were sent to the
Army, Navy, and Air Force. According to HUTSON, KNOWLES also wrote a
letter to the President of the United States.

                       HUTSON stated that none of the persons involved in this matter were
[marginalia: delete] interested in publicity. He stated that he would be willing to assist the
Bureau in the investigation of this matter if the Bureau desired, inasmuch
as he believed Mrs. SWAN and Admiral KNOWLES had confidence in him.

                       HUTSON described Mrs. FRANCES SWAN as being of middle-class cir-
cumstances, having a very modest home with furniture below middle-class. He
stated that she has no more than a high school education, if she has that.
He considered her to be a very simple minded person, religious, a student
of the Bible, and one who has studied spiritualism and other thought control
systems.

                       The above information is being made available to the Office of
Special Investigations, United States Air Force, and no further action is
being taken by this office.

- 4 -

--- PAGE 17 ---
[handwritten: 42762]

RECORDED - 150
[handwritten: 62 - 83894 - 346] [handwritten: w]
EX. - 109

Date: August 9, 1954

To: Director of Special Investigations
The Inspector General
Department of the Air Force
The Pentagon
Washington 25, D. C.

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

Subject: FLYING SAUCERS;
MRS. FRANCES SWAN
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

On July 29, 1954, Mr. John Hutson, Security
Officer, Bureau of Aeronautics, United States Navy
Department, and Commander L. T. McQuiston, United States
Navy, furnished the following information to this Bureau.

They advised that the Office of Naval
Intelligence had forwarded a file to the Bureau of
Aeronautics with enclosures which had been received
from retired Admiral Herbert B. Knowles of South Berwick,
Maine. According to Hutson and McQuiston, Knowles resided
near Mrs. Frances Swan who had been receiving messages
through thought transmission. Swan approached Knowles
and advised him that "flying saucers" were here to help
mankind. Information received by Hutson indicated that
Knowles became interested in the messages received by
Mrs. Swan and felt that the matter should be investigated
by the Government.

Hutson advised that Knowles wrote to Admiral
Espe, Director of Naval Intelligence, on June 1, 1954,
enclosing some of the messages received by Mrs. Swan.
Receiving no reply to his original communication, Knowles
again wrote to the Director of Naval Intelligence on
June 7, 1954. Hutson advised that the first letter that

Tolson
Boardman
Nichols
Belmont
Harbo
Mohr
Parsons
Rosen
Tamm
Sizoo
Winterrowd
Tele. Room
Holloman
Gandy

cc - 1 - Records Administration Branch (0-6a routing slip)
Attention: Intecomm-FBI Security Division (Same date)

[handwritten marginalia: JLH]
[handwritten marginalia: ab]
[illegible handwritten marginalia]
[handwritten marginalia: JES]
[handwritten marginalia: EHM]

[handwritten: 9] [stamp: AUG 18 1954]

EHM:sjr:elk [handwritten: elk]

[stamp: AUG 9 1954]
[stamp: MAILED 19]

--- PAGE 18 ---
Knowles wrote to the Director of Naval Intelligence contained
information that Mrs. Swan was receiving messages through
thought control from "outer space" and wrote them down as she
received them. The letter, according to Hutson, stated
that Mrs. Swan would write without any effort on her part
and would write continuously for four or five hours at a
time without getting tired. He stated that the Office
of Naval Intelligence had in its possession the
transmissions or messages that had been received by Mrs. Swan.

Hutson stated that he "unofficially" became
interested in the matter and at the invitation of Admiral
Knowles, he went to South Berwick, Maine, where he spent
July 24, 25, 26, 1954, in the residence of Admiral Knowles.

Hutson stated that inasmuch as Knowles
had received no response from the Government concerning this
matter, he began reading books on flying saucers. Hutson
advised that during the time that he was a house guest
of Admiral Knowles, there was also present Wilber B. Smith,
a Physicist of the Canadian Government who was also
interested in flying saucers. Hutson stated that Smith
was at Knowles' residence with his family and was there
in an unofficial capacity.

Hutson advised that during his stay, he
and Smith had various interviews with Mrs. Swan and had had
contact with the "outer space" through Mrs. Swan. During
the interview with Mrs. Swan and the contact with "outer"
space, Hutson stated that they sat in a group and he observed
Mrs. Swan writing messages that she was receiving from someone
in "outer space." According to Hutson, Swan informed him
that people from "outer space" could use her eyes and
ears to see and hear. According to Swan, this is accomplished
by the use of a mechanical device and all conversations are
recorded by the people in "outer space." Hutson indicated
as an example as to how messages were relayed, he stated
that he asked Mrs. Swan a question which she was to relay
to the people in "outer space" and before she had time to
relay the question, she began writing the answer down to
his question on paper.

Tolson
Boardman
Nichols
Belmont
Harbo
Mohr
Parsons
Rosen
Tamm
Sizoo
Winterrowd
Tele. Room
Holloman
Gandy

Hutson stated that Swan informed him that
whenever she was to have contact with the people in "outer
space," she would get a buzzing sound in her left ear to
indicate that they were "on the line." Hutson stated that

- 2 -

--- PAGE 19 ---
Mrs. Swan complained to the people in "outer space" that
this buzzing sound gets very annoying and painful to her ear.
She also stated that the messages had been coming since
May 27, 1954, and would come at all times of the night and
consequently she was losing a great deal of sleep. According
to Hutson, Mrs. Swan arranged a schedule with the people
in "outer space" so that the messages would not interfere
with her sleep. Hutson advised that a schedule was arranged
between Swan and the people in "outer space" that she would
receive messages on the following schedule: 8:00 in the
morning, 12 noon, 6:00 in the evening, every day of the
week.

Hutson stated that Mrs. Swan's husband,
Guy Swan, and their daughter, Dawlyn, had also heard the
buzzing sound in their ears, but have not been able to
receive transmissions or messages. Hutson stated that the
transmissions related to flying saucers, location and why
they were here, life on other planets, and life in the
hereafter, and prophecies in the Bible. Hutson advised
that Mrs. Swan could contact people in "outer space" by
mental thought control.

According to Hutson, Mrs. Swan stated that
there were two space ships from which she had been receiving
messages. They were described as 150 miles wide, 200 miles
in length, and 100 miles in depth. Hutson stated that
these ships are designated as M-4 and L-11 and they also
contain mother ships which measure approximately 150 to
200 feet in length. Hutson related that Swan had informed
him that there were approximately 5,000 of these mother ships.
He stated that "Affa" is the Manager or the Commander of the
ship M-4 which is from the planet Uranus and "Ponnar" is
the Manager or the Commander of the ship L-11 which is from
the planet Hatann. Hutson related that Mrs. Swan stated
that these contacts with "Affa" and "Ponnar" were for the
purpose of protecting our own earth from destruction caused
by the explosion of the atom bomb, hydrogen bomb, and wars
of various kinds which they, "Affa" and "Ponnar," say disrupt
the magnetic field of force which surrounds the earth.
Hutson stated that Mrs. Swan also related that contact was
made for the purpose of protecting the whole universe because
if the "fault lines" break or go to pieces, it would affect
the entire universe. According to Mrs. Swan, Hutson stated,
"Affa" and "Ponnar" are presently working the area of the
Pacific Ocean repairing "fault lines" which are in danger
of breaking.

Tolson
Boardman
Nichols
Belmont
Harbo
Mohr
Parsons
Rosen
Tamm
Sizoo
Winterrowd
Tele. Room
Holloman
Gandy

- 3 -

--- PAGE 20 ---
Hutson stated that both he and Smith were
looking for proof and they wanted to know whether they
could contact the man from "outer space." According to
Hutson, Swan advised that he and Smith could make contact in
"outer space" on any frequency provided they informed her
first of the frequency that they were to use so that she
could advise the people in "outer space." Hutson stated that
in connection with his contacting "outer space," he could make
no commitment as he did not know how far the Navy would go.
He advised, however, that Smith stated that he would try to
make contact with "outer space" on Sunday, August 1, 1954, and
was going to use a high frequency. Hutson stated that to
make sure that contact was made, Mrs. Swan advised that the
ship from "outer space" would come within 100 miles of
Ottawa, Canada, so that Smith would have no difficulty
in making his contact.

Hutson stated that Admiral Knowles wanted
to know if physical contact could be had with the people
in "outer space." Swan advised Hutson and Knowles that
the people in "outer space" wanted to know if they could
provide them protection and that if physical contact were to
be made, they would appear in a force which would consist
of 5,000 "bells" or "flying saucers." According to Mrs. Swan,
these "bells" or "flying saucers" would appear over many
nations of the world during the latter part of August, 1954,
and would come close enough to the earth so that they could
be seen by man and that they in turn would be able to
see people on the street.

Hutson described Mrs. Frances Swan as
being of middle-class circumstances, having a very modest
home with furniture below middle-class. He stated that she
has no more than a high school education, if she has that.
He considered her to be a very simple-minded person, religious,
a student of the Bible, and one who has studied spiritualism
and other thought control systems.

The above data is being furnished to the
Office of Special Investigations, United States Air Force,
for any investigation deemed appropriate, and for information
to G-2, Department of the Army, and the Office of Naval
Intelligence, United States Navy. No further action is being
taken in this matter by this Bureau.

Tolson
Boardman
Nichols
Belmont
Harbo
Mohr
Parsons
Rosen
Tamm
Sizoo
Winterrowd
Tele. Room
Holloman
Gandy

- 4 -

--- PAGE 21 ---
cc - 1 - Director of Naval Intelligence
Department of the Navy
The Pentagon
Washington 25, D. C.

cc - 1 - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
Department of the Army
The Pentagon
Washington 25, D. C.

Tolson
Boardman
Nichols
Belmont
Harbo
Mohr
Parsons
Rosen
Tamm
Sizoo
Winterrowd
Tele. Room
Holloman
Gandy

- 5 -

--- PAGE 22 ---
[handwritten: hw]
August 12, 1954

AIR MAIL

RECORDED 78 [handwritten: Awt] [handwritten in red: 62-83894-347]

Mr. Roger L. Jones
1414 Lake Drive
Zanesville, Ohio

Dear Mr. Jones:

Your letter of August 7, 1954,
with enclosure, has been received.

I would like to advise you that
the article you mentioned is entirely in-
correct with reference to the FBI, and there
is no information on the matter which I can
give you.

Sincerely yours,

J. Edgar Hoover [handwritten checkmark]

NOTE: This article was previously brought to
our attention, and the field advised the magazine
editor that the story was not true as far as the
Bureau's part was concerned. The editor stated
he regretted the error and he would publish a
retraction in the next issue, which is not due
for several months yet. Enclosure was an
airmail-stamped envelope, being used in
reply.

[list of names]:
Tolson
Boardman
Nichols
Belmont
Harbo
Mohr
Parsons
Rosen
Tamm
Sizoo
Winterrowd
Tele. Room
Holloman
Gandy
[handwritten: mpd]
( ) AUG 24 1954 [handwritten: Fn13]

MLL:1t [handwritten: ty 1]

[red stamp: COMM - FBI
AUG 1 3 1954
MAILED 31]

[sideways stamp, right margin]:
RECEIVED READING ROOM
AUG 12 6 34 PM '54
U. S. D. O. J.
FBI

[handwritten signature]
[partially visible text under signature]: DEPT. OF JUSTICE FBI REC'D
[handwritten, bottom right]: [unclear: nell?]

--- PAGE 23 ---
[illegible]

[stamp] RECORDED VI

[illegible]
G. Edgar Hoover.
[illegible]

[stamp] AUG 16 1954

[stamp]
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
F.B.I.
RECEIVED-MAIL ROOM
AUG 13 8 28 PM '54

[stamp, red ink]
U.S. DEPT. OF JUSTICE
F.B.I.
RECEIVED DIRECTOR
AUG 12 8 11 PM '54
MAILED 31

--- PAGE 24 ---
Mr. Tolson
Mr. Boardman
Mr. Nichols [handwritten checkmark]
Mr. Belmont
Mr. Harbo.
Mr. Mohr.
Mr. Parsons
Mr. Rosen.
Mr. Tamm.
Mr. Sizoo.
Mr. Winterrowd.
Tele. Room
Mr. Holloman [handwritten line]
Miss Gandy
[Handwritten diagonal line across list of names]

Roger L Jones
1414 Lake Drive
Zanesville, Ohio

August 7, 1954.

[Handwritten marginalia: (y)]

To:
Director
Federal Bureau Of Investigation
Washington D.C.

Subject: Inquiry about fantastic article

Dear Sir:

This may seem utterly silly, but I felt that I must write in about
it.
In the August issue of MYSTIC magazine is an article telling of
two men from the planet Venus who landed in a [underline: flying saucer] near Barstow,
California, obtained some old clothes, and hitch hiked into Los Angeles.
One of these two, the article says, got a job for a while in the
missing persons office of a newspaper in LA.

[Stamp: REC'D 1954 AUG 10 PM]

On page 18, 2nd column, 3rd paragraph, MYSTIC says that a Los Ang-
-eles newspaper reporter stated that he sent a ''full report'' about
these beings from another planet to the FBI.
MYSTIC also says that accompanying that account was an analysis
record of a ''gouged'' piece of hard alloy steel which one of the Venus-
-ians is supposed to have made by running his thumb lightly across the
surface of it. And that this particular analysis was made by ''one of
the foremost laboratories in LA.''

Frankly I don't believe the article. On the other hand, I can't
prove it isn't true.
If such a report was sent to you, may I purchase a photostatic
copy of each page?

RJ/

Sincerely yours,
[Signature: Roger L Jones]
Roger L Jones
[Handwritten: Ohio]

mme
ack. 8-12-54
man

[Stamp: RECORDED - 78]
[Stamp: INDEXED - 78]
62-83894-347mll
[circled handwritten number: 4]
[Stamp: 13 AUG 17 1954]

--- PAGE 25 ---
EAGLE
TROJAN BOND
COTTON CONTENT USA

[stamp, rotated:] RECEIVED-NICHOLS
F B I
Aug 10 11 45 AM '54

[stamp, rotated:] RECEIVED - DIRECTOR
F B I
U S DEPT OF JUSTICE
Aug 12 8 11 PM '54

[stamp, rotated:] RECEIVED - DIRECTOR
F B I
U S DEPT OF JUSTICE
Aug 10 9 21 AM '54

[stamp, rotated:] Aug 10 1 42 PM '54
MR. JONES
U S DEPT. OF JUSTICE

[handwritten:] Clinton
s/s
Jackyn Travin

[stamp:] Aug 9 8 56 PM '54

--- PAGE 26 ---
K
RECORDED - 94
INEDXED - 94
EX-130

62-83894-348

Mr. L. P. Wagner
4353 Dickerson Avenue
Detroit 15, Michigan

Dear Mr. Wagner:

Your letter postmarked September 30,
1954, with enclosures, has been received, and
the thought prompting your bringing the matter
you mentioned to the attention of this Bureau
is very much appreciated.

In the event you acquire further data
which you believe to be of interest to the FBI,
please feel free to contact the representatives
of our office located at 913 Federal Building,
Detroit 26, Michigan.

Sincerely yours,

John Edgar Hoover
Director

[handwritten: HAUMGARDNER?]
Tolson
Boardman
Nichols
Belmont [handwritten initials: AKB]
Harbo
Mohr
Parsons
Rosen
Tamm
Sizoo
Winterrowd
[handwritten: Tele, Room]
[handwritten: man]
[stamp: OCT 20 1954]

cc - Detroit, with copy of incoming and enclosures.
ATTENTION SAC: The [strikethrough: Detroit] Flying Saucer Club
is not identifiable in Bufiles. Neither are any
individuals who are listed as officers
or speakers whose names appear on the literature
forwarded by correspondent with the exception of
Desmond Leslie and Henry Maday. These latter two
individuals have been brought to the Bureau's
attention before as having written material or
lectured on the subject of Flying Saucers. (62-83894-
343 and 344)

DDC:nl
21388

[stamp: COMM - FBI]
OCT 1 1954
MAILED 30

[handwritten: Complainant]

October 8, 1954

[handwritten: 6433]
[handwritten: Ave]
[handwritten: Michiggan]
[handwritten: OCT 1954]

[stamp: RECEIVED READING ROOM]
[illegible] 11

[handwritten: dll]

--- PAGE 27 ---
Sept 27, 1954:

Federal Bureau
of Investigation
Washington, D.C.
(Y)
Gentlemen:
[strikethrough: Gad] A recently formed organization
[strikethrough: I had] named the "Detroit Flying Saucer Club" held
a meeting as per enclosed literature, as
the program unfolded, and in face of
loyalty statements by the principal, I’d
began to wonder.
A
Here is an organization dealing
in the fantastic ensuring a good following.
Fund raising is no problem as their
attendance for the night was 1000 at one
dollar each. They also passed out petitions
requesting release of secret information.
They are international in scope and
have national, state, local and even
neighborhood study groups.
This whole set-up would be
ideal as a communist front organization
it likely is 100% loyal. But anything
could happen and you are the people
who can watch it.
Sincerely,
L. P. Nolyen
4353 Dickerson Ave.
Detroit 15 Mich.

John Otto
me
TH mich
ENCLO. ATTACHED
[strikethrough: Don Thompson]

mich
mml
Act 10-8-54
DCJ.

[stamp: EXP. REC. OCT 14 1954]
RECORDS-94
INEDXED-94
EX-130
62-83894-34
10/13 1954
[illegible signature/initials]

--- PAGE 28 ---
[top holes for binder]

[faint lines indicating ruled paper, no readable text]

[stamp, upside down, bottom left]
MR. JONES
OCT 4 12 26 PM '54
RECEIVED
[unclear]
U S DEPT OF JUSTICE

[stamp, red ink, bottom center]
OCT 4 11 52 AM '54

--- PAGE 29 ---
62- 83894- 348
[stamp: ENCLOSURE]

--- PAGE 30 ---
THE DETROIT FLYING SAUCER CLUB
presents
MR. JOHN OTTO of Chicago
Patent Development Engineer, Member of Chicago Rocket Society, Pioneer Space Commentator
and Member of Saucers International -- who will speak on
"An Analysis of Latest Saucer Evidence"
(followed by audience participation from the floor)
WEDNESDAY EVENING, SEPTEMBER 22, 1954, at 7:30 P.M.
The Grand Ballroom, Veteran's Memorial Building, 151 West Jefferson
[Illustration of 5 small flying saucers]

ALSO Laura Marxer will introduce the leaders of eight neighborhood groups who already are
looking up ... other sightings will be reported. Our petition to President Eisenhower is
ready for your signature ... extra copies are on hand.
[Illustration of 5 small flying saucers]

THIS IS A SCOOP! A group of "HAM" operators, started within our Club, have made what
they are sure is a saucer contact. It will be reported by Don Thompson and his friends.

Our club is fast becoming Detroit's most interesting factual program. In presenting
Mr. Otto, we are bringing a speaker who has just returned from an eastern lecture tour,
where the S-R-O sign was out in New York City, following his broadcast interview over
Mutual Station WOR. His talk will be illustrated. If you have heard him, you know that
as a lecturer John Otto ranks among the best. Bring your friends. Incidentally:
Keep your eye out for our own Detroit Flying Saucer Club magazine arriving soon!
Contribution $1.00 Henry Maday, Chairman.