--- PAGE 1 ---
[CONFIDENTIAL]
[Handwritten] 62-83894-130

[DECLASSIFIED box]
DECLASSIFIED
Authority:
NND 90986

IN REPLY
REFER TO:

HEADQUARTERS
AIR DEFENSE COMMAND
MITCHEL FIELD, NEW YORK

12 September 1947

SUBJECT: Unidentified Flying Object
(Interview - Alpheus O. Powell)

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION:

The following information was received 12 August 1947 from Mr.
Alpheus O. Powell, 28 Redwood Road, New Hyde Park, Long Island, relative
to the sighting of a possible flying disc 4 August 1947.

On 4 August 1947, Mr Powell, an Airlines Captain with Pan American
Airways, Inc., was the first pilot of a Constellation type aircraft on a
flight from Gander, Newfoundland, to La Guardia Field, New York. Mr. Powell
took over the aircraft at Gander, Newfoundland and departed at approximately
1230 P.M., Eastern Daylight Saving Time for La Guardia Field, New York. At
1600 P.M. at a position approximately midway between the Everett (Mass) Fan
Marker and the Bedford Radio Beacon (Everett is 3 miles NW of Boston, Mass.,
and Bedford is 15 miles NW of the same city) both Mr Powell and Mr W. White,
navigator on this trip, sighted unidentifiable flying objects. To the best
of Mr. Powell's knowledge, the following weather conditions existed at that
time: Visibility was good; cloud coverage was from 6-8/10ths, with tops at
10,000 feet; and the wind at the 8,000 foot level was estimated as being
270/25 miles per hour. The aircraft was at 8,000 feet; airspeed 255 mph;
and the course was 244 degrees, magnetic.

Mr White, who was sitting in the co-pilots seat (the right side of
the cockpit) first called Mr. Powell's attention to a bright orange object,
which was on the right side of the plane, and slightly below the level of the
aircraft. Mr Powell was unable to see the object, as he had no visibility to
the right and down, from his position. Mr Powell immediately glanced out his
side window and noticed, at a 45° angle to the left, and unidentified flying
object. It was about one mile away at an altitude of approximately 7,800
feet. Mr Powell banked to obtain a better view of the object. The object
was under observation for approximately 30 seconds, and during this time was
viewed by Mr Powell. Mr Powell described the object as being about the length
of a P-40 fuselage, blunt at both ends, cylindrical in shape, and having a
bright orange hue. Mr Powell stated that the object had a definite shape, and
that there was no suggestion of gaseous dissipation as there would be if the
orange color were the exhaust from a rocket, or a jet aircraft. Mr Powell
estimated the course of the object to be 200° magnetic, and that the object
was travelling at approximately 150 mph. Mr Powell lost sight of the object,
when a cloud came between the aircraft and the object. The pursuit of the
object was not continued, inasmuch as it would have necessitated a departure
from the established airways.

[Handwritten marginalia at bottom left:] [unclear: Juell H R?]

[CONFIDENTIAL]

[Handwritten signature/initial at bottom right:] [unclear: dore?]

--- PAGE 2 ---
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]

HEADQUARTERS
AIR DEFENSE COMMAND
MITCHEL FIELD, NEW YORK

IN REPLY
REFER TO:

15 September 1947

SUBJECT: Unidentified Flying Objects
(Interview - Walter I. White)

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION:

The following information relative to the sighting of a possible
flying disc 4 August 1947, was received 10 September 1947 from Mr. Walter
I. White, 19-57 79th Street, Jackson Heights, New York.

On 4 August 1947, Mr. White, Pan American Airways Inc., was the
navigator of a Constellation type aircraft on a flight from Gander, New-
foundland to La Guardia Field, New York. At 1600, at a position approxi-
mately 10 miles NW of Boston, Mass., Mr. White sighted a flying object which
he was unable to identify. At this time Mr. White was sitting in the co-
pilots seat, and looking out the right side for other aircraft that might
be in the vicinity. Mr. White stated that when he first sighted the object,
it appeared to be about 3 miles away, and at least 1,000 feet below the level
of the Constellation. Mr. White believes that he studied the object for almost
30 seconds before he called the pilot's attention to it. Mr. White described
the object as being a deep gold in color, and that its' surface reflected
light. It appeared to be about 15 feet in length, and from 2-3 feet in depth;
elliptical in shape and blunted at the ends. Mr. White estimated the speed of
the object as being 175 miles per hour, and that it was travelling in an east-
erly direction, on a course of approximately 110° magnetic. Mr. White then
told the aircraft commander that there was an unidentified object to the right,
and again glanced out to observe the object, catching a momentary glimpse of
it before the pilot banked the plane to the left. When the aircraft banked
Mr White lost sight of the object. At this point, Mr Powell, the aircraft
Captain, exclaimed that he was able to see a similar object on his side.
Mr White was unable to see the object on Mr Powell's side. He stated that
he does not believe that it was the same object that he had viewed inasmuch
as the one he saw if it had remained on the same course would have been
hidden from view by that time by the wings and tail section of the Constella-
tion. Mr White stated that the pilot then righted the plane. The entire in-
cident transpired in less than a minute and one-half.

Mr White describes the weather condition at the time of sightings as
follows: about 5/10th scattered cumulus, with tops at 10,000 feet; visibility
10 miles; wind at flight level, West at about 15 mph. The flight level of the
aircraft at this time was 8,000 feet, TAS 270, and the magnetic course was SW.

AGENTS NOTES: Mr Walter I. White has been employed by Pan American Airways
for the past five years as a Navigator, and during the war worked with PAA

[handwritten marginalia, left:] Jun C H I
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
[handwritten marginalia, right:] done

--- PAGE 3 ---
C O N F I D E N T I A L

in conjunction with contract flying for the AAF. Mr White states that he
has flown with Mr Powell on a number of occasions, and he considers him
to be a very stable person; completely reliable, and not given to
"flights of fancy".

Related Report: See Summary of Information, 12 September 1947, Hq ADC,
subject, "Unidentified Flying Objects" (interview - Alpheus O. Powell).

Previous Distribution:
- None

Distribution
- AAF (3 copies)
- ADC (2 copies)

Evaluation

of source of information
C 3

[unclear inverted stamp]
C O N F I D E N T I A L done

--- PAGE 4 ---
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]

AGENTS NOTES: Mr. A. O. Powell is a graduate of the Aviation Cadet Flying
Training Program, having graduated from Maxwell Field, Alabama, with the
Class of 41-C. Since graduation, Mr. Powell has flown for Pan American
Airways and, at this date, has over 4,000 command pilot hours to his credit.
Mr. Powell appears to be a calm, intelligent individual, not given to
flights of fancy, or easily swayed by what he has previously read in the
newspapers as regards reports of this type. Mr. Powell has a fear of publi-
city and seemed hesitant to even tell his story lest he become the object of
ridicule. Mr Powell was questioned as to the possibility that what he
sighted might have been a tow target, a pilot balloon, or a radiosonic device
used for meteorological purposes. Mr Powell stated that he has seen numerous
pilot balloons, radiosonic devices and tow targets, while on flights; the
object observed on this flight definitely was not one of them.

Evaluation
Previous Distribution:
- None

of source        of information
C                 3

Distribution
- AAF (3 copies)
- ADC (2 copies)

2
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
[handwritten: done]

--- PAGE 5 ---
RESTRICTED

BASIC: Ltr. Hq. BARTD, Birmingham AAF, Birmingham, Ala., dtd 8 July 47,
subj: Report on Local "Flying Disc."

1st Ind. D
319.1/684
HEADQUARTERS, FOURTEENTH AIR FORCE, Orlando, Florida, [stamp: JUL 21 1947]

TO: Commanding General, Air Defense Command, Mitchel Field, New York.

1. Forwarded for information of your Headquarters.

2. This Headquarters has made no investigation of "Flying Disc"
reports because this is an isolated case.

FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

[signature: W.L. Murphy]
W. L. MURPHY
Lt. Colonel, AGD
Asst. Adj. Gen.

3 Incls: n/c

92715
RESTRICTED
2
24-6
[stamp: 24 JUL 1947]

--- PAGE 6 ---
62- 83894 - 130

--- PAGE 7 ---
RESTRICTED
HEADQUARTERS
BIRMINGHAM AIR RESERVE TRAINING DETACHMENT
BIRMINGHAM ARMY AIR FIELD
Birmingham, Alabama

A/C/W/slo
8 July 1947
7795

SUBJECT: Report on Local "Flying Disc"

TO: Commanding General
Fourteenth Air Force, ADC
Orlando, Florida
Attn: A-2

1. Inclosed herewith is a photograph of the "publicized flying
disc," which was reportedly witnessed over Birmingham on the night
of Sunday, 6 July 1947.

2. Attention is invited to the two light spots on the print and
the light trail following the two discs. The arrow at the top of the
photograph indicates the direction of flight. This has been examined
by professional photographers in Birmingham and their general opinion
is that the two spots shown on the light trail [handwritten: were] no flaws in the
negative, but instead, an actual photograph of the mysterious disc.

3. The undersigned officer did not personally witness the flight
of any disc, however, in view of the numerous reports received from the
citizens of Birmingham, it is the general opinion in Birmingham that
"something was in the air." Attached hereto as inclosure number two is
a statement made by the only military personnel of this organization
who personally witnessed the flight of the mysterious disc. For addi-
tional information attached as inclosure number three are clippings from
one of the local newspapers giving an account of the many persons who re-
ported seeing the many mysterious objects.

4. The intelligence officer of the Alabama Military District has
forwarded a similar report through ground force channels to the Commanding
General, Third Army, Atlanta 3, Georgia.

[signature: Jack C White]
JACK C. WHITE
Major, Air Corps
Commanding

3 Incls.
1. Photograph
2. Statement
3. Clippings

RESTRICTED

[Marginalia, right side:] 7/10 3/19/1679
[Page number, bottom right:] 2

--- PAGE 8 ---
[handwritten marginalia, top right]: Bich ai
/6

RESTRICTED

Report on Local "Flying Disc"
D333.5 ID (8 Jul 47) . 2nd Ind
HQ., AIR DEFENSE COMMAND, Mitchel Field, New York, 25 July 1947.

TO: Commanding General, Army Air Forces, Washington 25, D. C.
ATTN: AC/AS-2

Forwarded for your information.

FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

[signature]
R. H. SMITH
Colonel, GSC
Asst Chief of Staff-Intell.

3 Incls:
n/c

[handwritten, bottom middle]: dow

RESTRICTED
3

--- PAGE 9 ---
[handwritten]: 62-93894-130
THE WEA.
(Furnished by the U. S. Weather
For Birmingham and Vicinity—
Partly cloudy and warm today, to-
night and tomorrow with a few
scattered showers this afternoon.
High today 86, low tonight 70, high
tomorrow 90.

47
News
**
PRICE: 5 CENTS
'Flying Saucers' Reported
From 39 States, But Seem
To Be Concentrated Here
City Is Baffled By
Dazzling Display
Of Spooky Discs

The strange things that have
been in night skies since June 25,
were over Birmingham last night.
On one thing everyone who has
seen the mysterious objects agree
—they are round, saucer-like. After
that, every story differs. Each of
the hundreds of callers who re-
ported witnessing the baffling sky
demonstrations here last night had
a different version of what they
saw.
Some said the objects were
large, some small. They were mov-
ing at great speed. They were sus-
pended in the air. There was sound
along with their movements. They
moved noiselessly through the black
sky. They were at great distance
from the earth. They had fallen to
the ground. They were in perfect
formation. They were colliding
with each other.
But whatever the things are that
have set the nation agog since first
reported 12 days ago by a man in
Washington State, they definitely
were over the Magic City last night.
It seems, in fact, that more Bir-
mingham residents saw the objects
than in any other place.
***
REPORTS BEGAN coming into
the Age-Herald city room around
8 o'clock last night. For more than
an hour thereafter, the place was
bedlam. The switchboard operators
were swamped with calls. Report-
ers, office boys, copy readers—
everyone in the place was called
into action.
Reports came in from Edgewood,
Mountain Brook, Avondale, South-
side, Fairfield, Pratt City, West
End, Central Park, Bessemer.
There was fear, excitement, hor-
ror, skepticism in the voices. One
[illegible]

CAMERA HERE CATCHES "FLYING SAUCER"—Robert Cross-
land, Age-Herald copy reader, has camera proof that the much-dis-
cussed flying discs were over Birmingham last night. The picture
above was made by Mr. Crossland at 8:37 p.m. last night at his home
at 29th Street and Highland Avenue. He said he gave the film a
15-second exposure.
[handwritten]: 2ce 130
[handwritten]: 2ce 130

--- PAGE 10 ---
5—THE BIRMINGHAM NEWS
Mysterious Flying
Saucers Reported
In Birmingham Skies

Continued From Page 1
Although the reports to The Age-
Herald last night dwindled off at
about 9 p.m., there was a final call
from a man at 10, saying he had
seen the objects over the south-
eastern section. This morning, there
were more reports, more queries
coming into The News.
Maj. White issued a message to
Birmingham residents: "We'll do
everything the Army Air Forces is
empowered to do to run down the
mystery of the discs. This thing
seems to have gotten beyond the
point of speculation. Birmingham
can rest assured the air base will
keep on the alert until the mys-
tery is settled."

man admitted having seen ob-
jects several weeks ago "but was
ashamed to tell my wife."
Whatever it is going on in the
night skies, it has the entire nation
in a dither. The flying discs have
eclipsed every other national and
international event in the minds of
the American people. Broadcasts
from England last night said the
Britishers were scoffing at the
story. But when persons in 30-odd
states have reported seeing the ob-
jects, there must be something to
the story.
Birmingham police headquarters
was flooded with calls, too, last
night. So was the Weather Bureau,
the control tower at the airport, air-
line officers.
At the Birmingham Army Air-
field, Maj. Jack C. White, com-
mandant, ordered an alert and dis-
patched a plane to fly around the
city. The plane, with Lt. L. S. Rob-
inson at the controls, circled the
city for an hour and 15 minutes at
from 4,000 to 5,000 feet. He was un-
able to report any unnatural ob-
jects.
Scientists indicate that the ob-
jects are merely tricks of the eyes.
In fact, Howard Blakeslee, Associ-
ated Press scientific writer, has
stated he has seen similar objects
from his home on Long Island for
many years and associated no mys-
tery with them. They are a combi-
nation of eye and light tricks, is
his answer.
Turn to Page 5, Column 1

--- PAGE 11 ---
MONDAY, JULY 7, 1942

RADIO-GUIDED, SAYS LAD
"I'd like to give my opinion
about what the flying saucers
really are," Michael Eisman,
10, told The News this morn-
ing.

The grammar school youth,
"in the fifth grade and going on
to the sixth" at Crestline
Heights School, eagerly gave
his theory.

"They are new radio-guided
rocket discs from another
country that is planning war
on the United States," he said.
"They are equipped with
cameras. They will be radio
guided back to their home
country. They go fast to keep
anyone from seeing them.
Then they hover and stand still
to get their pictures.

"They have a reason for be-
ing over Birmingham," opined
young Eisman. "It has one of
the biggest steel mills, and the
biggest cotton gin." Eisman
said the "saucer cameras" were
clicking the fruit industry on
the West Coast.

As to what country is send-
ing the saucers, Eisman didn't
guess. Nor has he seen any
saucers, he said, over his home
at 4 Clarendon Road.

--- PAGE 12 ---
Charles F. Bradley, Birmingham
weather man, said he did not believe
the spectacle was a weather phe-
nomena. "I have instructed my
staff to be on the alert for any in-
formation they might gather on the
matter," he said.
***
GREATEST EXCITEMENT of
the evening came when a man re-
ported some of the discs had fallen
in a ravine near Avonwood. A re-
porter and photographer went to
the scenes—and found nothing.
Residents of the district said the
discs had passed low and appeared
to have fallen in the trees.
Robert Crossland, Age-Herald
copy reader, rushed for his camera
when the objects passed over his
residence on 28th Street and High-
land Avenue. His developed film
revealed two round, white spots on
the black, close together, one larg-
er than the other. He said he gave
the picture a 15-second exposure.
Five other persons were with him
when the picture was made.
But witnesses aren't needed any
longer to bear out reports of the
strange demonstration. Too many
persons—good, solid citizens—have
seen the things. In fact, they're
thinking of calling the show out at
Munger Bowl tonight, "The Disc-
light Opera."

Scores Of People Report
Seeing Mysterious Discs
Residents of East Lake, South-
side, West End, Woodlawn and Bes-
semer reported seeing the flying
discs or saucers last night. One disc
was reported seen yesterday after-
noon over the Warrior River. The
number seen at one time varied.
***
Nine of the discs were seen by
Connie Murdoch, 512 South 10th
Court. "They were gobs of light
moving around the sky," she re-
ported.
***
H. E. Reagor, 1318 45th Street,
said he and neighbors saw "40 or
50" light spots in the sky, apparent-
ly over the Central Park Airport
area.
***
One resident of East Lake, hear-
ing of the flying saucers, rushed
into his front yard. "I saw the land-
ing lights of a DC-3 and 17 light-
ning bugs," he reported.
***
Mrs. James Bain, 1225 South 29th
Street, saw three discs traveling
from east to west. Two more were
spotted later, followed by a single
disc, as neighbors gathered.
***
J. L. Kardus, 2100 Clanton Street,
Bessemer, reported seeing "strange
lights" moving through the sky be-
tween Bessemer and Red Mountain.
"They were going very fast," he
said.
***
"Whirling saucers" were reported
seen by Dan Smirl, 14, 1429 10th
Place, South, and Marvin Pharo, 15,
626 10th Avenue, South. "We
weren't looking for them," the boys
reported. "We were standing in the
yard when we saw round silver
flashes circling around. They came
one at a time at first, then the num-
ber increased. They seemed to go
over the mountain."
***
At police headquarters, Officer
E. E. McNeal said reports of the
discs began at 8:10 p.m. and ceased
about 20 minutes later.
***
"Streaks of light flying very
slow" were reported seen by Mrs.
H. M. Sockwell, 1360 Meadow Lane,
Green Acres. She said she rushed
into her yard as soon as she heard
the flying the report on the radio. She and
her husband and five neighbors saw
six of the discs flying "fairly low."
The She said they were the size of a

"BIG AS TABLES"
"I called to find out if I'm
crazy," said Mrs. Gordon Mize,
of the Bessemer Super-High-
way, who telephoned The
News this morning to report
seeing mysterious flying discs.
Mrs. Mize said she and her
husband and their hosts saw
the "balls of fire" as they pre-
pared to get into their car
after a visit with Mr. and Mrs.
Gordon Bush at Brighton be-
tween 9:30 and 10 last night.
She said the flash lights,
which appeared as beacon
lights coming over a hill, came
from the direction of Besse-
mer.
The lights would come at
lightning speed and then stop
dead still and hang in the sky,
they said. Then they would
dart off again, some returning
in the direction of Bessemer
and some going on. Some
would circle. Others would
pass each other and scarcely
avoid collision.
"They were about as large
as my dining room table," she
said.
baseball and traveled in a "big
curve from southwest to southeast.
The saucers came at intervals of
about five seconds.
***

--- PAGE 13 ---
A citizen of Fairfield Highlands
said the flying discs came over his
residence at a speed of about 1,500
miles an hour. "They would go in
opposite directions, stop, and bump
into each other," he reported.
***
Gene Plumstead, program man-
ager of WSGN, reported the flying
discs over Edgewood Lake.
***
J. A. Hafner, 3301 Avenue I, Ens-
ley, said the lights appeared like a
spot thrown by a huge searchlight.
He said, however, he could see no
beam such as would come from a
searchlight.
***
A number of "white round
things" were seen in the skies over
West End by Mrs. Alfred Hack-
barth, 1760 McMillan Avenue.
***
L. M. Cadenhead, 2000 48th
Street, Central Park, saw the lights
over Powderly,
***
"They looked like saucers," said
Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Martin and Mr.
and Mrs. Frank Arnold, 732 47th
Way, South. "Some of them went
as fast as bullets, while others
floated around. They were the size
of an automobile tire."
***
Mr. and Mrs. William Howell,
1004 East Court, South, reported
seeing 11 discs about 8:30 a.m.
***
"About 15 of them passed over
our house shortly before 8," said
Mrs. Helen Mallory, 1404 North
12th Court. Mrs. Mallory said the
objects were first sighted by her
son, Milo, who called the rest of
the family. "They looked like a
flash of light that went by in such
a hurry you couldn't describe it,"
she said.
***
Frank S. Lovelace, policeman for
the Tennessee Coal, Iron and Rail-
road Company, reported seeing
eight or 10 of the objects. "They
looked about the size of a dishpan,"
he said. "They came out of the
southeast and whirled around sev-
eral minutes."
***
S-Sgt. I. L. Livingston, of the Bir-
mingham Army Airfield, observed
the discs from his Green Acres
residence. "They were going zig-
zag from East to West," he said.
***
R. H. VAUGHN, III, who served
as an anti-aircraft gunner in Eu-
rope, saw the "flying saucer" dis-
play with his father from their
home in Ensley Highlands. "I never
shot at anything moving as rapidly
as they were," he said. Vaughn be-
lieves the "discs" are some sort
of natural phenomena, like the
Aurora Borealis.
***
Jimmy Dewberry, 11, of 1030 16th
Avenue, South, said he saw a "fly-
ing saucer" while visiting at his
grandmother's on 14th Avenue,
South. "It looked like a shooting
star," Jimmy said, "but it was too
low for that. It had a long red tail."

Searchlight Reflection
Theory Is Advanced

The mysterious "flying discs" ob-
served in Birmingham last night
may be a carnival beacon light at
Siluria, about 20 miles south of Bir-
mingham.
That was a solution offered this
morning by William B. Hayes, of
the Reconstruction Finance Corpo-
ration in the Comer Building here.
Mr. Hayes, who served in the
Army in the Pacific, said he and
others there had seen similar sights
throughout the South Pacific is-
lands caused by searchlights.
He based his theory on high over-
cast skies last night and said the
beacon at the Siluria carnival prob-
ably struck the high clouds and
gave the indication of being "flying
saucers."
Mr. Hayes is a pilot.

--- PAGE 14 ---
RESTRICTED
S-T-A-T-M-E-N-T

I, Staff Sergeant Ira L. Livingston, RA 14 153 972, Air Corps, have
approximately 250 hours flying time as pilot and Armorer Gunner have
the following statement to make concerning the appearence of "Flying Discs"
in the vicinity of Birmingham, Alabama.

At 2045 hours, 6 July 1947, while I was eating supper at my residence
at 1354 Meadow Lane, Green Acres, Birmingham, Alabama, my next door neighbor,
Mr. Herman M. Sookwell, called for me to come to the front door that there were
some "Flying Discs" outside. Immediately I went out in the front yard to
observe the objects. The objects appeared to the West of Birmingham traveling
in a South Eastern direction. They appeared to be approximately 2000 feet
above the horizon at a 45 degree angle from where I was standing at an un-
estimated distance away. The objects appeared to be approximately two (2)
feet in diameter, round in shape, producing a dim glow of light and traveling
at an estimated speed of five (5) to six (6) hundred miles per hour.
The objects or object appeared to be traveling in a definite arc rather than
straight and as soon as one was out of sight another would appear behind
it, but not always in the same path. I saw one that seemed to come straight
up. The view of where it came from was obstructed by a nearby house; and
when it reached the altitude of approximately 2000feet, it started off in
the same direction as the others. I did not at any time see any more than
one at the time and even though there could have been only one, my personal
belief is that there were seven (7) to ten (10). The Discs were silent and
appeared to be composed of a single light.

[signature: Ira L. Livingston]
Ira L. Livingston
Staff Sergeant, RA 14 153 972

Subscribed and sworn to before me this 7th day of July 1947.

[signature: James L. Macfarlane]
JAMES L. MACFARLANE
1st Lt. AC
Asst Adj.

RESTRICTED
[handwritten: 9-July-47]
1

--- PAGE 15 ---
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
NBF-T-101
3133
/gdb

Classification [strikethrough: cancelled or]
Changed to Restricted
by authority of CC, AD-ATC
[unclear: DNS Capt] 30 July 1947
(Name) . (Rank)

HEADQUARTERS, NEWFOUNDLAND BASE COMMAND
ATLANTIC DIVISION, AIR TRANSPORT COMMAND
FORT PEPPERRELL, NEWFOUNDLAND
APO 862,% POSTMASTER, NEW YORK, N. Y.
[stamp: RESTRICTED]

IN REPLY REFER
NBC_________

SUBJECT: Letter of Transmittal.

TO : Commanding General,
Atlantic Division, ATC,
Fort Totten, Long Island, N. Y.
(ATTENTION: AC/S, Intelligence)

Reference Letter of Transmittal, this office, dated 28 July
1947, with four (4) enclosures (Inclosures 1, 2 and 3, Final Reports of
Sightings of "flying saucers"; and Inclosure 4, Signed Statement - Con-
stable KEARSEY), transmitted herewith is Final Report of Sighting of
"flying saucers" in Newfoundland, which occurred at Harmon Field, Stephen-
ville, Newfoundland at 0345Z, 23 July 1947.

FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

Marion C. Miller
MARION C. MILLER,
Captain, Air Corps,
AC/S, Intelligence.

1 Incl:
Final Rpt of Sighting, 23 Jul 47

1st Ind.

HQ, ATLANTIC DIVISION, ATC, FORT TOTTEN, L.I., NEW YORK 6 Aug 47

TO: Commanding General, Air Transport Command, Washington 25, D.C.
ATTN: Chief of Staff

Forwarded in accordance with instructions outlined in
TWX CM-95, your Headquarters.

James H. Brewster, Jr.
JAMES H. BREWSTER, JR.
Lt Col, GSC
AC/S, Intelligence

Incl:
n/c

RESTRICTED
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
7.

--- PAGE 16 ---
[handwritten: 4]
CONFIDENTIAL
Classification cancelled or
Changed to [handwritten: Restricted]
[handwritten signature: DLS] [handwritten: 8/27/47]
RESTRICTED FINAL REPORT OF SIGHTING

1. Organization: 1388th AAF Base Unit
                   APO 864, c/o Postmaster, New York, N.Y.
2. Sighting     : Strange intermittent flashes that may tie in
                   with "Flying Discs".
3. Place        : Harmon Field, Stephenville, Newfoundland.
4. Time         : 0345Z, 23 July 1947.
5. Altitude     : Approximately 10,000 feet high.
6. Weather      : High scattered condition; visibility better
                   than fifteen (15) miles.
7. Heading      : From South, heading NNE (approximately 30°)
8. Speed        : High velocity; stated to be faster than a
                   conventional airplane.
9. Description  : The observers saw a light which at first appeared
                   to be a shooting star or airplane. It appeared
                   again, and a number of intermittant flashes were
                   seen for a period of approximately three (3) minutes.
                   The flashes were reddish in color. Observers said it
                   was not a falling star because it did not appear as
                   such; nor was it an airplane, because manoeuvers were
                   too abrupt and there was no noise of a motor.
10. Reported by: Miss Patricia Abbott, (Newfoundland National) Government
                   Employee and Lt. Hammaker, Navigator and Public Relat-
                   ions Officer.
11. General     : The informants (noted in Par.10) were walking when they
                   noticed a peculiar reddish light. Both Miss Abbott and
                   Lt. Hammaker stated that at first, they thought it was
                   a falling star, but if left no streak. It appeared
                   again; they thought it might be a plane flying at a
                   very high altitude. After observing its manoeuvers,
                   they concluded, because of the silence (no hum of motor)
                   and abrupt darts of the light, it was definately not
                   an airplane. Neither Miss Abbott nor Lt. Hammaker had
                   seen anything like it before.

                   [handwritten signature]
                   WILLIAM H. SMITH
                   Captain, Air Corps,
                   Intelligence Officer.

[handwritten: Level 1]
RESTRICTED
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
[handwritten: 8]

--- PAGE 17 ---
RESTRICTED
CONFIDENTIAL
Classification [illegible]
Changed to Restricted
authority of CC. AD-ATC
[unclear: EWS-AGPC?] - 6 Aug 47

HEADQUARTERS (Name) (Rank) [illegible] /gdbDate)
Newfoundland Base Command, ATLD-ATC
Fort Pepperrell, Newfoundland
APO 862, c/o Postmaster, New York, N. Y.

28 July 1947

SUBJECT: Letter of Transmittal.

TO Commanding General,
Atlantic Division, ATC,
Fort Totten, Long Island, N. Y.
(ATTENTION: AC/S, Intelligence)

1. Transmitted herewith, as inclosures 1, 2 and 3, are Final
Reports of Sightings of "flying saucers" in Newfoundland and vicinity
listed as follows:

Final Report of Sighting - 2000Z, 10 July 1947
" " " " - 0030Z, 11 July 1947
" " " " - 0015Z, 20 July 1947

2. Reference TWX - EN 18469, this headquarters, dated 121730Z
July 1947, regarding sightings of "flying saucers" by Constable ERIC
KEARSEY, Newfoundland Constabulary, at Grand Falls, Newfoundland, on
the night of 9 July 1947, attached herewith, as inclosure 4, is signed
statement of this sighting by Constable KEARSEY.

FOR THE COMMANDING GENERAL:

[handwritten signature: Marion C. Miller]
MARION C. MILLER,
Captain, Air Corps,
AC/S, Intelligence.

4 Incls:
1. Final Rpt of Sighting, 10 Jul 47
2. " " " ", 11 Jul 47
3. " " " ", 20 Jul 47
4. Signed Statement - Const KEARSEY

RESTRICTED
CONFIDENTIAL

9

--- PAGE 18 ---
CONFIDENTIAL
Classification [strikethrough: cancelled] changed to [handwritten: Restricted]
FINAL REPORT OF SIGHTING authority [handwritten: of CC, AD-ATC]
[handwritten: DWS Eng. 222 (5) 47]
(Name) (Rank) (Date)
[handwritten: 4.] RESTRICTED

1. Org. : 1388th AAF BU, NBC, ATLD, ATC. Harmon Field, Newfoundland.
2. Sighting : Flying Disc or other airborne object.
3. Place : Approx six (6) miles SSW of Harmon Field.
4. Time : 2000Z/?, 10 July 1947
5. Altitude : 8- 10,000 ft.
6. Weather : Clear, Scattered Cumulus 8 - 10, 000 ft.
7. Heading : NNE on horizontal course.
8. Speed : Very high velocity.
9. Shape & Size: Circular like a wheel, estimated to be same size as a C-54
                      as seen from 10, 000 ft.
10. Color : Translucent or Silvery, left a Bluish Black trail approx
                      15 miles long.
11. Photographs: Mr. Robert W. Leidy reported that he took two (2) Kodachrome
                      snap shots of the trail.
12. Reported By: Mr. John N. Merhman, TWA mechanic; Mr. John W. Woodruff,
                      PAA mechanic; and Mr. Robert E. Leidy, PAA mechanic reported
                      the above facts to the Intelligence Officer on 15 July 1947.
                      A Flash Report was TWX ed to : Action copy Commanding
                      General, Hq. ATC, Attn. Asst. Chief of Staff, Intelligence.
                      Info copies: Commanding Generals Hq. ATLD and Hq. NBC
13. General : Mister's Merhman, Woodruff, and Leidy were enroute from
                      Stephenville Crossing to Harmon Field at the time of the
                      sighting. Mr. Woodruff was the first to see the Disc, it
                      appeared to rent or split the clouds thru which it passed
                      and left a Bluish Black trail approx. fifteen (15) miles
                      long behind it. The trail was similar to the afterglow of
                      a powerful landing light or search light beam after it is
                      suddenly switched off. The object maintained a straight and
                      horizontal course according to Mr. Merhman and Mr. Woodruff.
                      Mr. Leidy stated it appeared to be on a great curved course
                      on a horizontal plane. The object disappeared into the
                      North Northeast. Mr. Leidy says he took two (2) Kodachrome
                      Photographs of the trail. The film has been transmitted
                      to the Asst. Chief of Staff, Intelligence, Newfoundland
                      Base Command for processing.

[Signature: WILLIAM H. SMITH]
WILLIAM H. SMITH
CAPT. A.C.
Intelligence Officer

[handwritten: sud 1]
RESTRICTED
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
[handwritten: jo]

--- PAGE 19 ---
[stamp: RESTRICTED]
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL] classification [strikethrough: cancelled or]
FINAL REPORT OF SIGHTING changed to [handwritten: Restricted]
authority of CC. AD-ATC
[illegible handwritten signature] (Name) (Rank) [illegible handwritten date/signature]

1. Organization: 1388th AAF Base Unit
    APO 864, c/o Postmaster, New York, N.Y.
2. Sighting : Flying Disc or other airborne object.
3. Place : Codroy, Newfoundland, 59º03' W Long.; 47º50' N Lat.
4. Time : 0030Z hours, 11 July 1947.
5. Altitude : Approximately 6,000 feet.
6. Weather : Clear; at dusk.
7. Heading : From northwest heading eastward.
8. Speed : Very high velocity.
9. Shape & Size: Disc shaped; was reported as being the size of a
    barrel-head, dinner-plate and size of a plane
    that is flying high. The trail gave the whole
    object the appearance of a cone.
10. Color : Flame colored with a trail of a lighter flame color.
11. Reported by : Mr. John Legge, Mr. Wm. Evans and Albert Samms of
    Codroy, Newfoundland.
12. General : Mr. Legge and Mr. Evans were standing outside Mr. Legge's
    store when they both sighted the object. Both men stated
    that the disc was very bright with an after-glow which
    made the object look like a cone. It was a very clear
    night. In spite of the high velocity of the flying
    object, they said they could not possibly have mistaken
    it for a plane or a falling star. Besides the two men,
    the object was sighted by Albert Samms; he reported what
    he had seen to his mother. Mrs. Samms stated that Albert
    was in no way alarmed about it, he was alone and on his
    way home when he sighted it, and watched it while it was
    in sight. Albert was quite convinced from the color and
    behaviour of the object that it was not a plane, but
    definitely some flying object.

    The informant, Mr. Legge, is believed to be reliable.
    He is a man of approximately forty; has had considerable
    experience as foreman of Buchans Mine, Newfoundland, where
    he was in charge of three hundred men. During the war,
    Mr. Legge was a mamber of a civilian volunteer Air
    Detection Corps. With that ɔkground, Mr. Legge stated
    that he felt sure that the object he had seen was some-
    thing new which he had never seen before. [handwritten: ✓]

[handwritten: level 2] [stamp: RESTRICTED] [strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL] [handwritten: 11]

--- PAGE 20 ---
[stamp: RESTRICTED]
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]

Final Report of Sighting

General cont'd:
Albert Samms is a twelve year old boy. He was alone
when he saw the flying object, he was very definite
that he had never seen anything like it before. His
mother, Mrs. Samms, is the Post Mistress of the town,
and after hearing Albert's description, felt that it
answered to the description of a "Flying Disc". Mr.
Legge reported his sighting shortly afterwards to Mrs.
Samms because he was sure it should be made known to
her in order that the incident might be reported by
telegram immediately.

There was one other sighting reported from a River
Warden at South Branch. The man could not be con-
tacted at time of interviews with other parties.
However, a second-hand description of his sighting
was obtained, and it agreed with the sightings at
Codroy.

[Signature: illegible, appears to be W. H. Smith]
WILLIAM H. SMITH
Captain, Air Corps,
Intelligence Officer.

12

--- PAGE 21 ---
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
[stamp: RESTRICTED]
Classification [strikethrough: cancelled] as
RESTRICTED
Authority of CO. AD-ATC
Pvd Cpt. C. [illegible] 6-20-47
(Name) (Rank) (Date)

FINAL REPORT OF SIGHTING

1. Organization: 1388th AAF Base Unit
                     APO 864, c/o Postmaster, New York, N.Y.

2. Sighting     : Flying Disc or other Airborne Object.

3. Place        : On board Steamship "BURGEO" enroute from Sydney,
                     Nova Scotia to Port aux Basques, Newfoundland,
                     about one hour out from Sydney.

4. Time         : 0015Z 20 July 1947.

5. Altitude     : 30° off the horizon at an estimated quarter mile range.

6. Weather      : Clear and dark.

7. Heading      : NNE (30° East of True North) on horizontal plane.

8. Speed        : High velocity, stated to be faster than a tracer bullet.

9. Description : Observers did not see the object, they saw its flashes
                     and all four observers agreed there were four (4) or
                     five (5) flashes approximately one (1) second apart
                     and equidistant. The flashes were said to be silvery
                     to reddish in color, and were described by two observ-
                     ers to be like those of a Fire Fly only larger and at
                     equal intervals, and did not look like a shooting star
                     or airplane.

10. Reported by: Messrs Maitland, Larkin, Douglas and Hamilton of
                     Hamilton, Metcalfe and Kansas City Bridge Companies
                     which concern is doing the construction at Harmon Field.

11. General     : The four gentlemen (noted in Par.10) and Captain Gullage,
                     Master of the "Burgeo", were standing on the starboard
                     deck, and as the Captain was trying to describe a previous
                     sighting, he saw the flashes; the other four gentlemen
                     also saw them as described herein, and believed that it
                     was not a meteorite or airplane because of its speed,
                     color, and evenly spaced discharges or flashes.

                     Captain Gullage told the four gentlemen that he had seen
                     the same thing at approximately the same time and location
                     (ship's position) on the evening of 15 July 1947, except
                     at that time, the object or flashes were traveling faster
                     and frequently changing course (he said it changed course
                     abruptly several times) and was headed generally to the

[stamp: RESTRICTED]
dncl 3
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
13

--- PAGE 22 ---
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL] [stamp: RESTRICTED]
4
Final Report of Sighting:

General cont'd
: SSW. The Captain also told the four gentlemen
that he was willing to make a complete report
if the information is desired for official
purposes.

[Signature: William H. Smith]
WILLIAM H. SMITH
Captain, Air Corps
Intelligence Officer.

 - 2 -
[unclear: stamp: RESTRICTED]
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
14

--- PAGE 23 ---
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
Classification cancelled or [unclear: voided]
[handwritten: changed to Restricted]
INTELLIGENCE OFFICE authority of CO, AD-ATC
HEADQUARTERS 138th AAF BASE UNIT Ind
NEWFOUNDLAND BASE COMMAND, ATL-AGC
APO 864, c/o Postmaster, New York, N. Y. (Rank) (Date)
[handwritten signature: Wm H. Smith] [handwritten: 7-16-47]

16 July 1947

INTERROGATION of JOHN E. WOODRUFF, Chief Mechanic, Pan American
Airways, Harmon Field, Newfoundland, taken at 1415 HMT, 16 July 1947,
by Captain William H. Smith, AC, Intelligence Officer.

Q. Did you see one of the so called "Flying Disks" or other object
on the 10th July?
A. Yes, I did.

Q. Can you give the approximate time?
A. Approximately 1700.

Q. Tell me the circumstances under which you saw this object.
A. We were coming back from a fishing trip, and coming over the hill
between here and Stephenville Crossing you can see the cloud for-
mation ahead, I saw the object break out where the clouds opened
and it left its trail behind it.

Q. Had you been drinking?
A. No.

Q. You were riding in a car at the time you saw it?
A. Yes, in the front seat of the Pan American car.

Q. What was the weather like that day?
A. It was very clear and the clouds were very scattered.

Q. What was the approximate altitude of the clouds?
A. I'd say from 8000 feet to 10,000 feet.

Q. Did you see the Disk itself?
A. Yes, what it appeared to be was a translucent disk like a wheel
travelling at a terrific rate of speed and opened the clouds as
it went through the air.

Q. How was this Disk travelling, horizontal, descending or ascending?
A. It was horizontal.

Q. About how big did it appear to you?
A. From the height of it, I'd say it was about the size of a C54 or a
Constellation.

Q. About how far apart did it break the cloud?
A. It spread the clouds out about half mile.

RESTRICTED
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL] [handwritten signature: Jid]

15

--- PAGE 24 ---
RESTRICTED
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]

Interrogation of John E. Woodruff (Cont'd)

Q. What kind of a break did it make in the clouds?
A. It cut a straight path right through the cloud.

Q. Did it leave a trail?
A. Yes, it left a trail dark bluish in color similar to a high power
   light. The trail was from approximately fifteen (15) to twenty
   (20) miles long.

Q. Have you ever seen a meteor?
A. Yes.

Q. Do you think this was a meteor?
A. No, I don't think so, it was cut too clean. This was as straight
   as an arrow.

Q. What was the course of the object?
A. Well, looking at the map I'd say North North East.

Q. Have you been working around airplanes long enough to know the
   size of an aircraft and the height from a distance?
A. Yes.

Q. How long have you been working around aircraft?
A. Seven (7) years.

Q. Were you in the Army during the time of the War?
A. No.

Q. Did you take any pictures?
A. No, I did not, but one of the boys took some.

Q. Do you think the pictures will show up?
A. Yes, it was an ideal day for pictures.

[Signature: John E. Woodruff]
JOHN E. WOODRUFF
Chief Mechanic
Pan American Airways

Sworn and subscribed to before me
this [handwritten: 17] day of July 1947.

[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL] [Signature: S. W. HINSON, JR]
RESTRICTED [faint handwritten mark, possibly '2']
S. W. HINSON, JR
Captain, Air Corps
Adjutant

16

--- PAGE 25 ---
RESTRICTED [strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL] Classification [strikethrough: changed to] [handwritten: Restricted]
authority of CC, AD-ATC
[handwritten: C4 / 22 July 47]
(Rank) (Date)
INTELLIGENCE OFFICE
HEADQUARTERS 1355TH AAF BASE UNIT
NEWFOUNDLAND BASE COMMAND, ATLD-ATC)
APO 864, c/o Postmaster, New York, N. Y.

16 July 1947

INTERROGATION of JOHN H. MEERMAN, JR., Supervisor and Mechanic,
Trans World Airways, Harmon Field, Newfoundland, taken at 1430 NFT,
16 July 1947, by Captain William H. Smith, AC, Intelligence Officer.

Q. How long have you been associated with aircraft and aviation?
A. Since approximately 1935.

Q. Were you in the Army during the War?
A. Yes.

Q. What did you do in the Army?
A. Aerial Gunner.

Q. Did your job during the war entail you to be able to judge distances
    and sizes of objects and ranges?
A. Yes.

Q. On the evening of 10 July 1947, did you see one of the so called
    "Flying Disks" or an object in the sky?
A. Yes, we were coming up over the mountain between here and Stephen-
    ville Crossing. The car was going up hill and we could see the sky
    through the windshield. Mr. Woodruff said "look at the cut in the
    sky". I looked up and saw a bluish black vapor trail.

Q. Did you see the object?
A. No, I just saw the trail as it was left behind.

Q. Can you describe the effect the object had on the cloud formation?
A. The clouds were very scattered and were about from 8000 feet to
    10,000 feet, the object passed through and out the cloud leaving a
    gap where you could see the blue sky, like a knife had cut it. The
    edges were feathered similar to a weld, as if you cut a weld in half.

Q. Did the object appear to be descending, ascending, or horizontal?
A. It was horizontal and seemed to remain on a true course.

Q. What was your estimate of the course?
A. Approximately North North East.

Q. Can you give any estimate as to the size of the object?
A. I did not see the object.

RESTRICTED
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL] [signature: Jm]

17

--- PAGE 26 ---
[handwritten: 4]
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
RESTRICTED
Interrogation of John W. Mehrman, Jr.

Q. Can you describe the trail?
A. It was bluish black in color, very easily distinguished from the
   blue sky. A diesel exhaust would be similar to it.
Q. Was the trail fan shaped?
A. No it was more or less a band across the sky in a straight path.
Q. Did it make a noise?
A. No noise.
Q. What went on in the car when you sighted the object?
A. We stopped the car and got out and looked at it. One of the boys
   had a camera and took a photograph of the trail that the object
   left.
Q. What was the name of the man who took the photograph?
A. Robert Leidy.
Q. Do you know what type of film Mr Leidy was using?
A. Kodachrome, I believe.
Q. Do you know whether Mr. Leidy saw the Disk or object?
A. I don't believe so.


Sworn and subscribed to before me
this [handwritten: 7] day of July 1947.

[Signature: JOHN H. MEHRMAN, JR]
Supervisor and Mechanic
Trans World Airways

[Signature: S. E. HINKSON, JR]
Captain, Air Corps
Adjutant

[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
RESTRICTED
-2-
[handwritten: jr]

--- PAGE 27 ---
RESTRICTED
CONFIDENTIAL Classification cancelled or
changed to Restricted
INTELLIGENCE OFFICE by CG AAF ATC
HEADQUARTERS 1385th AAF BASE UNIT (illegible signature)
NEWFOUNDLAND BASE COMMAND, ATL-ATS
APO 864, c/o Postmaster, New York, N. Y. (Rank) (Date)
Col. [illegible date]

26 July 1947

Interrogation of ROBERT W. LEIDT, Station Mechanic, Pan American
Airways, Harmon Field, Newfoundland, taken at 1450 HFT, 16 July 1947.
by Captain William H. Smith, AC, Intelligence Officer.

Q. Were you with Mr. Woodruff and Mr. Nehrman on the evening when they
saw an object or flying disk passing over the sky on 10 July 1947?
A. Yes, I was.

Q. Were you or any members of the party drinking?
A. No, I had one can of beer, that was about half hour before that.

Q. Can you tell me the circumstances under which you saw the object
or its trail?
A. Well, Mr. Woodruff saw it first and said he saw the thing travelling
through the sky. We did not believe him at first but when he was so
concerned about it we stopped the car and got out. I had my camera
so took a picture of it. There was a bluish streak left in the sky
which could not have been a cloud formation. It was a definite trail
and caused the clouds to break open as it went through.

Q. Did it cut a path through the cloud?
A. Yes, it was very clear, and you could see the trail right through
the cloud. It looked to be travelling in a big circle and it left
sharp edges to the clouds.

Q. What was the trail like?
A. I would not say it was exhaust, it looked as if an object passed
through similar to that of a pebble leaving a ring in the pond.

Q. Was there any difference in the color?
A. No, it looked as if the object broke the cloud and left this opening.

Q. Was the trail horizontal, going up, or coming down?
A. It looked horizontal.

Q. What was the altitude of the clouds?
A. I don't know, sir, they were pretty high though.

Q. What time was this?
A. I don't know exactly sir, but it was between three and five o'clock
in the afternoon, we were coming back from fishing.

[strikethrough: RESTRICTED]
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL] R W L

19

--- PAGE 28 ---
RESTRICTED
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]

Interrogation of Robert W. Leidy (Cont'd)

Q. Did you see the object?
A. No.

Q. How long do you think the trail was?
A. I don't know, sir, but the trail was very long, that is why I think
something went through the sky because of the trail and blank space
it left, you could easily see it.

Q. Was the trail on a straight course?
A. Well, as I said before, it looked to me from the ground, that it was
travelling at a terrific rate of speed in a circle because of the
ares in the path.

Q. Have you ever seen a meteor?
A. No.

Q. Can you estimate the size of the cut in the clouds?
A. No.

Q. How long have you been working around planes, etc?
A. Six (6) years.

Q. Were you in the Army during the war?
A. No.

Q. How many pictures did you take?
A. Two.

Q. What type camera did you have?
A. An Argus, P-2.

Q. Was the film black and white or kodachrome?
A. It was kodachrome.

Q. Where are the film now?
A. Well, I took three or four rolls and I am not sure which one the
pictures are on.

Q. I understood from Mr. Woodruff that they are being developed.
A. I think it is out of the camera sir, but I have not sent them
out yet.

Q. Will you give us the four rolls of film so we can have them processed
officially?
A. Yes, sir.

RESTRICTED
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
[stamped diagonally: RESTRICTED]
- 2 - [handwritten: R M L]
20

--- PAGE 29 ---
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
RESTRICTED
Interrogation of Robert W. Leidy (Con'd)

Q. Are you willing to give the Army a copy of the pictures of the
    trail?
A. Yes.

Robert W. Leidy
ROBERT W. LEIDY
Station Mechanic
Pan American Airways

Sworn and subscribed to before me
this 17 day of July 1947.

S.L. Hinson, Jr.
S. L. HINSON, JR
Captain, Air Corps
Adjutant

[faint watermark: RESTRICTED]
[strikethrough: CONFIDENTIAL]
- 3 -
2V

--- PAGE 30 ---
RESTRICTED

4 STATEMENT OF MR. JOHN P. LEGGE, CORDROY, NEWFOUNDLAND. TAKEN BY
MERCEDES BURKE OF THE INTELIGENCE OFFICE, HARMON FIELD, NEWFOUND-
LAND. 17 July 1947.

At approximately 10 o'clock in the evening of 10 July 1947
I was standing by my store door; I happened to look up and saw
what appeared to be a "FLYING SAUCER". It definately was not a
shooting star; I'd seen several stars shoot before, but never like
this! nor was it an airplane, it was too "lit up" and traveling
at too great a speed. It wasn't an airplane on fire because it
would have fallen in the water. It was a nice clear night, no
clouds, it was just getting dark. I would say it was traveling at
the rate of a shooting star but much closer. I'd say roughly at
6,000 feet. It was visible for about fifteen (15) seconds. It
came from the North West heading Eastward. The circle looked to
be about the size of a barrel head, and the trail behind looked
to be about fifteen (15) feet long. The trail behind the disc
made the whole object look like a cone. Another thing that makes
me feel sure it wasn't a shooting star is; a shooting star usually
leaves a temporary streak, this object I saw left no streak only
the one that appeared to travel behind the circle which looked like
an after-glow. The circle was a bright red, nearest I could des-
cribe it would be the color of a flame, the after-glow(cone-shaped)
was a fainter shade. What I saw last Thursday night resembled a
shooting star in no way whatsoever. There was only one.

[signature]
JOHN P. LEGGE

Witness: [signature] [unclear: F.W. Tompkins]

Witness: [signature] Mercedes Burke

RESTRICTED
23